STATE: Pennsylvania\nURL: https://www.pa.gov/content/dam/copapwp-pagov/en/dhs/documents/providers/pharmacy-services/documents/clinical-guidelines-sw-pdl/2025-prior-auth-guidelines/2026-01-05-analgesics-acute-pain-agents.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: seed\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nMedical Assistance 
BULLETIN 
ISSUE DATE 
November 6, 2025 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
January 5, 2026 
NUMBER 
*See below
 SUBJECT 
Prior Authorization of Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents – 
Pharmacy Services 
BY
Sally Kozak 
Deputy Secretary 
Office of Medical Assistance Programs
COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS BULLETIN SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO: 
Fee-for-Service Provider Service Center:  1-800-537-8862 
Visit the Office of Medical Assistance Programs website at: 
https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/dhs/departments-offices/omap-info.html 
IMPORTANT REMINDER: All providers must revalidate the Medical Assistance (MA) enrollment of each service 
location every 5 years. Providers should log into PROMISe to check the revalidation dates of each service 
location and submit revalidation applications at least 60 days prior to the revalidation dates. Enrollment 
(revalidation) applications may be found at:  https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/dhs/resources/for-
providers/provider-enrollment-information/provider-enrollment-documents.html. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this bulletin is to: 
1. Inform providers of the addition of the Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents therapeutic
class to the Statewide Preferred Drug List (PDL).
2. Issue new handbook pages that include the requirements for prior authorization and
the type of information needed to evaluate the medical necessity of prescriptions for
Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents submitted for prior authorization.
SCOPE: 
This bulletin applies to all licensed pharmacies and prescribers enrolled in the Medical 
Assistance (MA) Program.  The guidelines to determine the medical necessity of Analgesics, 
Acute Pain Agents will be utilized in the fee-for-service and managed care delivery systems.  
Providers rendering services to MA beneficiaries in the managed care delivery system should 
address any questions related to the prior authorization of Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents to 
the appropriate managed care organization. 
 
BACKGROUND: 
*01-26-01
09-26-01
27-26-01
33-26-01
02-26-01
11-26-01
30-26-01
03-26-01
14-26-01
31-26-01
08-26-01
24-26-01
32-26-01
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n-2- 
 
 
The Department of Human Services’ (Department) Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) 
Committee reviews published peer-reviewed medical literature and recommends the following:  
 
• Preferred or non-preferred status for new drugs and products in therapeutic classes 
already included on the Statewide Preferred Drug List. 
• Changes to the statuses of drugs and products on the Statewide PDL from preferred 
to non-preferred and non-preferred to preferred. 
• Therapeutic classes of drugs and products to be added to or deleted from the 
Statewide PDL. 
• New quantity limits. 
• New guidelines or revisions to existing guidelines to evaluate the medical necessity 
of prescriptions submitted for prior authorization. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
 
During the September 24, 2025, meeting, the P&T Committee recommended that the 
Department add the Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents therapeutic class to the Statewide PDL 
and proposed guidelines to determine medical necessity of prescriptions for Analgesics, Acute 
Pain Agents.   
 
 
The requirement for prior authorization and guidelines to determine medical necessity of 
prescriptions for Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents submitted for prior authorization, as 
recommended by the P&T Committee, were subject to public review and comment and 
subsequently approved for implementation by the Department. 
 
PROCEDURE: 
 
The procedures for prescribers to request prior authorization of Analgesics, Acute Pain 
Agents are located in SECTION I of the Prior Authorization of Pharmaceutical Services 
Handbook.  The Department will take into account the elements specified in the clinical review 
guidelines (which are included in the provider handbook pages in the SECTION II chapter 
related to Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents) when reviewing the prior authorization request to 
determine medical necessity. 
 
 
 
As set forth in 55 Pa. Code § 1101.67(a), the procedures described in the handbook 
pages must be followed to ensure appropriate and timely processing of prior authorization 
requests for drugs and products that require prior authorization. 
 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
Prior Authorization of Pharmaceutical Services Handbook - Updated pages 
 
RESOURCES: 
 
Prior Authorization of Pharmaceutical Services Handbook – SECTION I 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n-3- 
 
 
Pharmacy Prior Authorization General Requirements  
https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/dhs/resources/pharmacy-services/pharmacy-prior-
authorization-general-requirements.html  
 
Prior Authorization of Pharmaceutical Services Handbook – SECTION II 
Pharmacy Prior Authorization Guidelines 
https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/dhs/resources/pharmacy-services/clinical-guidelines.html  
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nMEDICAL ASSISTANCE HANDBOOK 
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION OF PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES 
1 
January 5, 2026 
I. 
Requirements for Prior Authorization of Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents 
 
A. Prescriptions that Require Prior Authorization  
 
All prescriptions for Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents must be prior authorized. 
 
B. Review of Documentation for Medical Necessity  
 
In evaluating a request for prior authorization of a prescription for an Analgesics, Acute Pain 
Agent, the determination of whether the requested prescription is medically necessary will take 
into account whether the beneficiary: 
 
1. 
Is prescribed for the treatment of a diagnosis that is indicated in the U.S. Food and Drug 
(FDA)-approved package labeling or a medically accepted indication; AND 
 
2. 
Is age-appropriate according to FDA-approved package labeling, nationally recognized 
compendia, or peer-reviewed medical literature; AND 
 
3. 
Is prescribed a dose and duration of therapy that are consistent with FDA-approved 
package labeling, nationally recognized compendia, or peer-reviewed medical literature; 
AND 
 
4. 
Does not have a contraindication to the prescribed drug; AND 
 
5. 
Has a history of therapeutic failure of or a contraindication or an intolerance to both of the 
following: 
 
a. Acetaminophen 
b. An NSAID; 
 
AND 
 
6. 
For Journavx (suzetrigine), both of the following: 
 
a. Has not received a 14-day supply of Journavx (suzetrigine) in the past 90 days  
b. If Journavx (suzetrigine) has been used in the past, has documentation that the 
beneficiary is experiencing a new episode of moderate to severe acute pain that is 
separate and distinct from the previous episode that was treated with Journavx 
(suzetrigine); 
 
AND 
 
7. 
For a non-preferred Analgesics, Acute Pain Agent, has a history of therapeutic failure of or 
a contraindication or an intolerance to the preferred Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents. See 
the Preferred Drug List for the list of preferred Analgesics, Acute Pain Agents at: 
https://papdl.com/preferred-drug-list; AND 
 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nMEDICAL ASSISTANCE HANDBOOK 
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION OF PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES 
2 
January 5, 2026 
8. 
If a prescription for an Analgesics, Acute Pain Agent is for a quantity that exceeds the 
quantity limit, the determination of whether the prescription is medically necessary will also 
take into account the guidelines set forth in the Quantity Limits Chapter. The list of drugs 
that are subject to quantity limits, with accompanying quantity limits, is available at: 
https://www.pa.gov/en/agencies/dhs/resources/pharmacy-services/quantity-limits-daily-
dose-limits.html.   
      
NOTE: If the beneficiary does not meet the clinical review guidelines listed above but, in the 
professional judgment of the physician reviewer, the services are medically necessary to 
meet the medical needs of the beneficiary, the request for prior authorization will be 
approved. 
 
C. Clinical Review Process 
 
Prior authorization personnel will review the request for prior authorization and apply the 
clinical guidelines in Section B. above to assess the medical necessity of a prescription for an 
Analgesics, Acute Pain Agent. If the guidelines in Section B. are met, the reviewer will prior 
authorize the prescription. If the guidelines are not met, the prior authorization request will be 
referred to a physician reviewer for a medical necessity determination. Such a request for prior 
authorization will be approved when, in the professional judgment of the physician reviewer, 
the services are medically necessary to meet the medical needs of the beneficiary. 
 
D. Dose and Duration of Therapy  
 
Requests for prior authorization of Journavx (suzetrigine) will be approved for up to 14 days.  
 
E. References 
 
1. 
Explain How Suzetrigine Stacks Up for Acute Pain. Pharmacist's Letter. March 2025, No. 
410303 
2. 
Journavx (suzetrigine) Prescribing Information. Boston, MA; Vertex Pharmaceuticals; 
January 2025. 
3. 
Schwenk, E.S. Nonopioid pharmacotherapy for acute pain in adults. UpToDate. Accessed 
August 15, 2025.\n