Source URL: https://medicaid.ms.gov/preferred-drug-list/
State: Mississippi
Label: Universal PDL
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Title: Universal Preferred Drug List - Mississippi Division of Medicaid Universal Preferred Drug List - Mississippi Division of Medicaid

Universal Preferred Drug List - Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
Universal Preferred Drug List - Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
Font Size 
- 
+ 
MESA Portal for Providers   |   
Select a page 
About 
Services 
Managed Care 
Quality 
Late Breaking News 
Job Openings 
Contact 
Universal Preferred Drug List 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid > Universal Preferred Drug List 
Mississippi Universal Preferred Drug List (PDL) 
The Mississippi Division of Medicaid (DOM)’s universal preferred drug list (PDL) is for all Medicaid, MississippiCAN (MSCAN) and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) beneficiaries. Previous PDLs may be found at this link . 
Current PDL : effective May 1, 2026 
Mississippi Medicaid Preferred Diabetic Supply List (DSL) 
Current DSL : effective October 1, 2025 
Attention Providers: 
Effective July 1, 2025, all OneTouch blood glucose test strips and meters will be non-preferred. Please transition your patients to one of the preferred alternatives. 
PDL Change Provider Notices 
PDL Changes Provider Notice : July 1, 2026 
MS is a member of the Sovereign States Drug Consortium (SSDC). Change Healthcare negotiates rebate offers on behalf of the SSDC. Drug and diabetic supply manufacturers should refer to information found at this link for the process of submitting rebate offers to the state: Sovereign States Drug Consortium 
Important Information for Drug Manufacturers 
MedImpact (MI), manages the PDL and administers the Supplemental Rebate Program. 
Industry Information Requests 
Industry representatives with clinical presentation requests or inquires related to drugs listed on the Preferred Drug List may contact the Division’s clinical contractor, MedImpact (MI). 
Email: MS@medimpact.com 
Attn: GPS Medicaid Rebate Operations 
10181 Scripps Gateway Ct. 
San Diego, CA 92131 
PDL Overview 
The PDL is a medication list recommended to DOM by the P&T Committee and approved by the executive director of DOM. Drugs designated as preferred have been selected for their efficaciousness, clinical significance, cost effectiveness and safety for Medicaid beneficiaries. The PDL addresses certain drug classes: 
Some drug classes will not be reviewed for preferred status because of no and/or limited cost savings, if the class is all and/or mostly generic, or if there is low utilization in that class. 
Drugs, historically covered by Medicaid and not listed on the PDL, will continue to be covered. 
DOM may opt to include or delete drug classes from PDL review in the future. 
New drugs introduced into the marketplace in therapeutic classes that have been reviewed will be considered non-preferred until no later than the annual review of the particular therapeutic class. 
Not reviewed (NR) notation on the PDL document indicates a new drug that has not yet been reviewed by the P&T Committee. 
Other items to note on the PDL document: 
Drugs highlighted in yellow, on the PDL document, denote a change in PDL status. 
Preferred brands do not count toward the monthly brand service limit of 2/month.  However, preferred brands count toward the drug service limit of 6/month. 
Unless otherwise specified, the listing of a particular brand or generic name includes all dosage forms of that drug. 
Preferred Drug List Archive 
For more information about past PDLs and provider notices, visit the Preferred Drug List Archive . 
Home 
About 
Medicaid Coverage 
Services 
Resources 
Provider Resources 
Contact 
Pharmacy 
Pharmacy Home 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Mississippi Preferred Drug List 
Prior Authorization 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee 
Pharmacy Resources 
Pharmacy Reimbursement 
340B 
Cell and Gene Therapy (CGT) Access Model 
The Mississippi Division of Medicaid responsibly provides access 
to quality health coverage for vulnerable Mississippians. 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
P.O. Box 2222 
Jackson, Mississippi 39225 
Toll-free: 800-421-2408 
Phone: 601-359-6050 
Search 
Policies 
Disclaimer and Terms of Service 
Privacy and Security 
Notice of Non-Discrimination 
Transparency Mississippi 
Helpful Links 
Mississippi's Official State website 
Mississippi Legislature 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
Legislative Updates 
Useful Tools 
Contact 
Forms 
Resources 
Language Assistance 
Job Openings 
APIs 
APIs 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid   |   Copyright @ 2019 
BACK TO TOP
