Source URL: https://medicaid.ms.gov/pharmacy/
State: Mississippi
Label: Pharmacy Home
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Title: Pharmacy - Mississippi Division of Medicaid Pharmacy - Mississippi Division of Medicaid

Pharmacy - Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
Pharmacy - Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
Font Size 
- 
+ 
MESA Portal for Providers   |   
Select a page 
About 
Services 
Managed Care 
Quality 
Late Breaking News 
Job Openings 
Contact 
Pharmacy 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid > Pharmacy 
Latest Pharmacy News and Notices 
The latest pharmacy provider billing updates and news notices will be posted here. Please check daily for updates.  
Pharmacy News and Notices Archive 
State of Emergency & Medicaid Pharmacy Billing Guidance – 1/23/26 
The Governor has declared a State of Emergency in advance of severe winter weather expected to impact Mississippi beginning Friday, Jan. 23, 2026. The declaration will remain in effect through at least Jan. 27 and allows the state to mobilize resources and support response efforts in affected counties. During the State of Emergency, pharmacies should follow emergency billing procedures, including the use of applicable emergency overrides, to ensure continuity of care for members. 
Pharmacy POS Billing During Officially Declared Emergencies 
During an officially declared state of emergency, pharmacy providers may override service limits by submitting POS claims with NCPDP Field 420-DK = “13 – Payer Recognized Emergency.” This override applies to: 
2 Brand / 6 Prescription limit 
Early refill edits 
These fields will be opened for the duration of the declared emergency. Providers should use professional judgment when dispensing medications. The Division of Medicaid may conduct post-event audits to ensure appropriate use. Providers and members outside of affected areas must maintain documentation supporting early or excess fills. Claims may be subject to recoupment if documentation is insufficient. 
Medicaid to implement single Pharmacy Benefit Administrator for all pharmacy claims on July 1, 2024 
On July 1, the Mississippi Division of Medicaid (DOM) will implement a single Pharmacy Benefit Administrator (PBA) to streamline and enhance the processing and management of pharmacy claims for all Medicaid members, including those enrolled in MississippiCAN and CHIP. 
Operated by Gainwell Technologies, the PBA will also assume all pharmacy prior authorization responsibilities for drugs submitted on pharmacy claims. DOM will continue to require the use of the Universal Preferred Drug List (PDL). This decision comes after careful consideration and evaluation of various factors aimed at enhancing efficiency and transparency in the Medicaid delivery system. 
Members should notice no disruption in their care if providers are prepared for this change. 
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW AND DO 
Pharmacy Providers: 
Billing Directions 
Pharmacy providers must ensure their pharmacy software is configured to submit NCPDP D.0 pharmacy claims, with dates of service of 7/1/2024 and thereafter, for all Medicaid members (fee-for-service-FFS, MSCAN and MSCHIP) to Gainwell using the following billing values: 
• BIN – 025151 
• PCN – DRMSPROD 
Retroactive Billing Directions 
To bill pharmacy claims with dates of service prior to 7/1/2024, providers must ascertain which Coordinated Care Organization (CCO) in which the beneficiary was enrolled on that date and submit to that CCO’s PBM. For example, if the member was enrolled with Molina, the claim (s) should be submitted to CVS Caremark. The MSCAN and MSCHIP BIN/PCN values in effect prior to 7/1/2024 should be used. Retroactive billing will be possible for claims with dates of service a year back from 6/30/24. 
Claims 
To streamline billing for pharmacy providers, all claims will be subject to  the same billing rules, regardless of fee for service (FFS), MSCAN or MSCHIP enrollment of the member. 
These billing rules will be consistent with the FFS billing rules for claims submitted to GWT prior 7/1/2024. 
Medicaid Member ID# 
Submit only the first nine (9) digits of the ID Number displayed on the Medicaid card. Do not submit a Person Code. 
All Medicaid members receive one of these type of ID cards: 
Please note: New plan-specific ID cards have been mailed to members enrolled in MSCAN and MSCHIP plans. 
DAW Codes 
The only DAW codes recognized in adjudication logic are ‘0’ and ‘7’. 
Use of DAW ‘7’ for Narrow Therapeutic Index (NTI) Brand Name Drugs (UPDATE) 
Medicaid allows the generic mandate requirement to be overridden for brand name narrow therapeutic index (NTI) drugs to include Coumadin, Dilantin, Lanoxin, Synthroid, and Tegretol. 
Pharmacists may now override the generic mandate for NTI drugs by submitting a DAW of ‘7’ on the POS claim for prescriptions on which the prescriber specifies ‘Do Not Substitute’. 
Pharmacy Help Desk and Prior Authorization Unit 
The Gainwell pharmacy call center phone number is 833-660-2402. This is a direct line to the Gainwell pharmacy help desk to aid with pharmacy claims and pharmacy prior authorizations. All pharmacy claims and prior authorization assistance should be directed to this number. 
The GWT pharmacy help desk is open Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 6 p.m. CST. The GWT help desk is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for emergency PA/claims issues. 
Prescribing Providers: 
DOM requires most prior authorization (PA) requests be signed/submitted by prescribers. 
Prescribers and their administrative staff must submit all requests to Gainwell on July 1, 2024, and thereafter. The preferred method of submission is via the MESA Portal for Providers . 
PA requests may also be faxed to Gainwell at 866 -644-6147. If PA assistance is needed providers can call 833-660-2402. 
General Prior Authorization Instructions can be found on DOM’s website at https://medicaid.ms.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/General-Prior-Authorization-Instructions-7_1_2024.V4-1.pdf . 
PA reconsideration requests and appeals can also be sent to Gainwell directly via fax at 866- 644-6147. 
In an effort for a smooth transition to the single PBA, GWT has attempted to convert all  MSCAN and MSCHIP PAs with approval dates in effect on/after 7/1/2024. In some cases, new PA requests may be required from prescribers. 
Link to PAs Forms – https://medicaid.ms.gov/pharmacy-prior-authorization/ 
Voluntary 90-Day Maintenance Drug List 
DOM is in the process of expanding this list. The GWT pharmacy help desk will issue PAs for 90-days supplies for members on a case-by-case basis. 
Weekly Remittance Advice (RA) Statements 
Pharmacy providers will receive one weekly payment for all claims. FFS, MSCAN and MSCHIP claims  will appear on a single, weekly RA from GWT. 
Reimbursement change for CHIP claims 
MSCHIP claims will be reimbursed using the same methodology used for fee-for-service and MSCAN claims. 
Billing of preferred diabetic supplies allowed via pharmacy claims 
Effective 7/1/2024, diabetic supplies will be allowed to be billed on pharmacy claims. Diabetic supplies allowed to be billed via pharmacy claims are blood glucose meters and test strips, continuous glucose monitors (CGMs), disposable insulin pumps and components, insulin pen needles and syringes. Please see the MS Medicaid Diabetic Supplies Preferred Product List at https://medicaid.ms.gov/preferred-drug-list/ . 
Billing via medical claims by DME providers will still be allowed to minimize access issues for members. 
New Medication Management Component of Elderly & Disabled (E&D) Waiver 
Exciting Opportunity for MS Medicaid Pharmacy Providers: New Medication Management Component of Elderly & Disabled (E&D) Waiver, effective 2-1-2024. Pharmacists who are interested in participating must watch the video found here and submit an email to dompharmacyoffice@medicaid.ms.gov as follows: 
Email subject: “E&D Waiver medication management” 
Email body: Pharmacy Name, Address and County , Pharmacist Contact Name, Phone Number, Fax Number, Medicaid ID #, NPI# 
E&D Waiver Billing Instructions for Medication Management Services 
Pharmacy 
Pharmacy Drug Coverage Inquiry 
Mississippi NCPDP D.0 Payer Sheet 2022 
Claims and Prior Authorization – Gainwell Technologies 
Please contact our fiscal agent, Gainwell Technologies, for questions or problems relating to any Pharmacy Prior Authorization or POS claims issues. 
Toll-free: 
1-833-660-2402 
Pharmacy PA Fax: 
1-866-644-6147 
Provider/Member Call Center: 
1-800-884-3222 
Provider Fax: 
1-866-644-6148 
Mississippi Medicaid Prescribers – registered users 
If you are a Mississippi Medicaid prescriber, submit your prior authorization requests through the Gainwell Technologies provider portal. 
Submit prior authorization request through the Gainwell Technologies provider portal 
Medicaid Office of Pharmacy Contact Information 
Phone: 
601-359-5253, #4 
Home 
About 
Medicaid Coverage 
Services 
Resources 
Provider Resources 
Contact 
Pharmacy 
Pharmacy Home 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Mississippi Preferred Drug List 
Prior Authorization 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee 
Pharmacy Resources 
Pharmacy Reimbursement 
340B 
Cell and Gene Therapy (CGT) Access Model 
The Mississippi Division of Medicaid responsibly provides access 
to quality health coverage for vulnerable Mississippians. 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid 
P.O. Box 2222 
Jackson, Mississippi 39225 
Toll-free: 800-421-2408 
Phone: 601-359-6050 
Search 
Policies 
Disclaimer and Terms of Service 
Privacy and Security 
Notice of Non-Discrimination 
Transparency Mississippi 
Helpful Links 
Mississippi's Official State website 
Mississippi Legislature 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
Legislative Updates 
Useful Tools 
Contact 
Forms 
Resources 
Language Assistance 
Job Openings 
APIs 
APIs 
Mississippi Division of Medicaid   |   Copyright @ 2019 
BACK TO TOP
