STATE: Georgia\nURL: https://dch.georgia.gov/document/document/october-2026-manufacturers-forum-announcement/download\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://dch.georgia.gov/providers/provider-types/pharmacy/drug-utilization-review-board/2026-durb-meeting-information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
Manufacturers’ Forum 
ANNOUNCEMENT 
NorthStar HealthCare Consulting 
Georgia Department of Community Health 
 
On behalf of the Georgia Department of Community Health (DCH) and in service to the Georgia Medicaid 
Fee-for-Service (FFS) Drug Utilization Review Board (DURB), NorthStar HealthCare Consulting (NHC), in 
conjunction with OptumRx, announces the Manufacturers’ Forum for the October 2026 DURB Meeting. 
 
Date:   
Monday, September 21, 2026 
 
  
 
  
 
  
Appointments: The Manufacturers’ Forum is by appointment only and will be conducted virtually. 
Appointments may be requested after the Drugs Under Review document is posted to the DCH website at 
https://dch.georgia.gov/providers/provider-types/pharmacy/drug-utilization-review-board. 
Only 
manufacturers with drugs up for review at the upcoming DURB meeting will be granted 
appointments at this Forum. All requests for appointments must be made in writing to GAMedicaid@nhc-
llc.com and include the drug name. Requests arriving less than one (1) week before the scheduled 
Forum date may not be honored but will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. New drug entities are 
generally not reviewed by the DURB until the drug has been on the market for at least 6 months. 
 
Guidelines for Participation:  
• 
Individual manufacturer participation shall be limited to one 60-minute time segment per Forum. The 
presentation shall be limited to approximately 40 minutes with 20 minutes for questions and answers.  
• 
An electronic one-page summary (front only, font 10, not including references) of each drug 
presentation, factually based, in a stand-alone, user-friendly document should be provided one week 
prior to the presentation via email to GAMedicaid@nhc-llc.com. Please include a pronunciation guide 
of the drug’s brand and generic names. The one-page summary may be provided to the DURB 
members. 
 
Helpful Information for Manufacturers with non-DURB Drugs:  
• 
Manufacturers with new drugs that are not under review at the current DURB meeting are requested to 
wait until their drug is under review at a DURB meeting to request Forum participation.  
• 
Manufacturers with new drugs that have orphan designation are highly encouraged to share any 
noteworthy information regarding their drug for review by DCH and NHC electronically. Please follow 
the one-page summary format described above and send to GAMedicaid@nhc-llc.com.   
• 
Manufacturers seeking appointments for drugs that are currently listed on the Preferred Drug List (PDL) 
and/or the Providers’ Administered Drug List (PADL) will be granted appointments at a future Forum or 
on an ad hoc basis at DCH/NHC’s discretion. Regardless of whether an appointment is granted, all 
manufacturers are encouraged to send relevant, pertinent clinical information electronically to 
GAMedicaid@nhc-llc.com for our review. Please follow the one-page summary format described 
above. 
 
Comments and Inquiries:  
• 
Manufacturers with comments or inquiries related to Georgia Medicaid FFS Preferred Drug List, Prior 
Authorization Criteria, Manufacturers’ Forum or DURB should submit these in writing to 
GAMedicaid@nhc-llc.com.  
• 
Manufacturers with comments or inquiries related to Georgia Medicaid FFS claims processing or drug 
benefit plan design should submit these in writing to Tami.Sweat@optum.com.  
• 
Manufacturers with comments or inquiries related to Georgia Medicaid FFS supplemental rebates 
should submit these in writing to Georgia-DURB@primetherapeutics.com.\n