STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40430\Agenda_DMAS_40430_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
           
 
COMMONWEALTH of VIRGINIA 
Department of Medical Assistance Services 
 
DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW PROGRAM 
 
1                                                                                                              
 
 
Virginia Medicaid Drug Utilization Review (DUR) Board 
Thursday, December 11, 2025, 1:00pm 
DMAS -- 600 East Broad Street 
Agenda 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Call to Order and Introductions – Rachel Cain, PharmD, Chair  
 
2. 
Minutes - Approval of Minutes from the June 12, 2025 meeting  
 
3. 
DUR By-Laws 
 
4. 
New Drugs – Grid   
• DUR Traditional Drugs -- Non-Physician Administered Drugs 
a) Alyftrek™ (vanzacaftor, tezacaftor, and deutivacaftor) 
b) Attruby™ (acoramidis) 
c) Avmapki™ Fakzynja™ (avutometinib; defactinib) 
d) Blujepa® (gepotidacin) 
e) Brinsupri™ (brensocatib) 
f) Crenessity™ (crinecerfont) 
g) Gomekli™ (mirdametinib) 
h) Hernexeos® (zongertinib) 
i) Ibtrozi™ (taletrectinib) 
j) Leqembi® Iqlik™ (lecanemab-irmb) 
k) Modeyso™ (dordaviprone) 
l) Ojemda™ (tovorafenib) 
m) Onapgo™ (apomorphine) 
n) Orlynvah™ (sulopenem etzadroxil and probenecid) 
o) Revuforj® (revumenib) 
p) Romvimza™ (vimseltinib) 
q) Sephience™ (sepiapterin) 
r) Strensiq® (asfotase alfa) 
s) Wayrilz™ (rilzabrutinib) 
t) Zelsuvmi™ (berdazimer)  
 


--- Page 2 ---
           
 
COMMONWEALTH of VIRGINIA 
Department of Medical Assistance Services 
 
DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW PROGRAM 
 
2                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
• Physician Administered Drugs (PADs) 
a) Amvuttra® (vutrisiran) 
b) Lenmeldy™ (atidarsagene autotemcel) 
c) Ryoncil® (remestemcel-L-rknd) 
 
5. 
Topics for Discussion 
a) Antipsychotic Medications in Children  
b) Antidepressant Medications in Children  
c) Mood Stabilizer Medications in Children  
d) Overlaps in Antipsychotics, Antidepressants and Mood Stabilizers in 
Children 
e) Synagis 
f) Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist (GLP-1 RA) Utilization 
g) Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines 
h) Concurrent Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics 
i) Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines and Antipsychotics 
j) Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids 
 
6. 
DUR Quarterly Newsletter (June 2025 and September 2025) 
 
7. 
Prime Therapeutics Quarterly Pipeline – Complete Pipeline available on 
WebPortal (July 2025 and October 2025) 
 
8. 
Reports 
a) ProDUR 
b) RetroDUR 
i. Recent RetroDUR Activity 
ii. RetroDUR Criteria Estimates     
c) Utilization Analysis   
 
9. 
Public Comment 
 
10. Adjournment 


--- Page 3 ---
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES 
DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW BOARD BY- 
LAWS 
 
Mission Statement 
Section 4401, 1927(g) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA '90) mandated that the 
Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) develop and adopt regulations effective January 1, 
1993, for a drug utilization review (DUR) program for covered outpatient drugs The Bill established a Drug 
Utilization Review Board, which will review and approve drug use criteria and standards for both retrospective and 
prospective drug utilization reviews, apply these criteria and standards in the application of DUR activities, review 
and report the results of DURs and recommend and evaluate educational intervention programs. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1I 
 
DUR Board Structure 
1.1 
Name — This body shall be known as the DMAS Drug Utilization Review Board, hereinafter 
referred to as the DUR Board. 
 
1.2 
Composition — 
 
The Director of DMAS shall establish the DUR Board either directly or through a contract with an outside vendor. 
The DUR Board shall submit recommendations on prospective and retrospective drug use review to the director. 
The director reserves the right to reject such recommendations and shall so notify the DUR bBoard consistent with 
federal requirements. The DUR Board shall adhere to all the requirements of client confidentiality with respect to 
patient specific information. 
 
The DUR Board shall consist of 13 members. At least one-third of the members shall be pharmacists. At least one- 
third but no more than 51% of the members shall be physicians. There shall be at least one but no more than two 
nurse members. All pharmacist, physician and nurse members shall be licensed by the Commonwealth with such 
licenses in good standing. The Director of DMAS shall invite submission of candidates from each of these groups. 
Other individuals and groups interested in submitting names of candidates for the DUR Board shall indicate their 
interest to the director in writing. The director shall appoint the physician members from candidates submitted by 
the Medical Society of Virginia, the Old Dominion Medical Society, and each of the medical schools in the 
Commonwealth. The director shall appoint the pharmacist members from candidates submitted by the Medical 
College of Virginia/Virginia Commonwealth University School of Pharmacy, the Virginia Pharmaceutical 
Association, Virginia Chain Drug Store Association, and the Virginia Society of Consultant Pharmacists. The 
director shall appoint the nurse member or members from candidates submitted by the Virginia Nurses Association. 
 
1. At least five of the physicians and pharmacists appointed to the DUR Board shall be licensed and actively 
practicing. 
2. All individuals appointed to the DUR Board shall demonstrate knowledge and expertise in one or more of the 
following areas: 
a. The clinically appropriate prescribing of covered outpatient drugs; 
b. The clinically appropriate dispensing and monitoring of outpatient drugs; 
c. Drug use review, evaluation, and intervention; and 
d. Medical quality assurance. 


--- Page 4 ---
2 
 
C3. Consistent with its by-laws, the DUR Board members shall serve at the pleasure of the director, for terms 
established by the director. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. 
 
1.3 
Term of Office — Consistent with its by-laws, the DUR Board members shall serve at the pleasure of the 
director, for terms established by the director. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
appointment. 
 
The DUR Board shall elect from among its members a chairperson and a vice-chairperson. Officers may be elected 
to successive terms. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11II 
DUR Board Meetings 
 
2.1        Regular Meetings —The DUR Board shall hold meetings no less than quarterly, and upon call by the 
Director. 
 
2.2 
Special Meetings — The DUR Board may meet at such other times and places as the Director of DMAS 
determines to be necessary and appropriate, Reasonable effort must be made by or on behalf of the Chairperson to 
notify each DUR Board member of the meeting, 
 
2.3        Meeting Notice — Each DUR Board member shall file with the Director of DMAS the e-mail address, 
mailing address and telephone number to which meeting notices and other information are to be directed. Notice 
of all regular meetings shall be given to the DUR Board members at least thirty days (30) in advance of the time 
and place meeting. Notice of all regular meetings shall also be announced at least three working days in advance 
of the meeting by publication in the Virginia Register or the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall. 
 
2.4 
Quorum— Seven (7) members of the DUR Board shall constitute a quorum. 
 
2.5       Closed Meetings — Prior to meeting in a closed meeting, the DUR Board must vote affirmatively to do so 
and must announce the purpose of the meeting. This purpose shall consist of one or more of the purposes for which 
closed meetings are permitted in accordance with Section § 2.2-3711 of the Code of Virginia, the pertinent portion 
of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. 
 
Discussion in the closed session must be limited to the subject or subjects stated in the motion. No final action may 
be taken in the closed session. Upon return to open session, any action taken or motion adopted must be restated, 
voted upon, and placed in the minutes in order to become effective. 
 
2.6 
Conduct of Business — The rules contained in the most recently published edition of Roberts Rules of 
Order Newly Revised shall govern the DUR Board in all cases to which they are applicable, to the extent that they 
are not inconsistent with the laws of Virginia, these By-Laws, or any special rule which the DUR Board may adopt. 
 
2.7 
The DUR Board shall be assisted in carrying out its administrative duties, including the maintenance of 
minutes and records, by staff provided by the director of DMAS. 


--- Page 5 ---
3 
 
2.8 
Electronic Participation in Meetings 
 
1. 2.8.1 Remote Participation of Members - An individual member may participate in a meeting of the 
DUR Board or a public meeting of any committee established by the DUR Board through electronic 
communication from a remote location, as permitted by § 2.2-3708.3 of the Code of Virginia, by 
following the procedures outlined in Appendix A.  During a state of emergency declared by the 
Governor, the procedures outlined in § 2.2-3708.2 shall be followed. Excluding During Declared States 
of Emergency – An individual member may participate in a meeting of the DUR Board or a public 
meeting of any committee established by the DUR Board through electronic communication from a 
remote location for the following reasons: 
2.8.2 All-virtual Meetings – The DUR Board may, in its discretion but only as permitted by § 2.2-
3708.3, conduct a public meeting using electronic communication means during which all members of 
the public body who participate do so remotely rather than being assembled in one physical location, 
and to which public access is provided through electronic means, as defined in § 2.2-3701. The DUR 
Board shall follow the procedures outlined in Appendix B to conduct all-virtual meetings.  
2.8 
 
2.9 
A temporary or permanent disability or other medical condition prevents the member’s physical 
attendance; 
2.10 
A family member’s medical condition that requires the member to provide care for such family member, 
thereby preventing the member’s physical attendance; 
2.11 
A member’s principal residence is more than 60 miles from the meeting location; or 
2.12 
A personal matter prevents the member’s physical attendance and identifies with specificity the nature of 
the personal matter. 
2.13 
 
2.14 
Procedure for Approval: 
2.15 
 
2.16 
Notification: The member requesting to participate through electronic communication from a
 
remote location must notify the DUR Board or committee chair on or before the day of the meeting. 
2.17 
Quorum: A quorum of the DUR Board, or a simple majority of the committee, must be physically 
assembled at the primary or central meeting location identified in the public notice required for the meeting. 
2.18 
Technological Arrangements: Arrangements must be made for the voice of the remote participant to be 
heard by all persons at the primary or central meeting location. 
2.19 
Documentation: The specific reason the member is unable to attend the meeting, and the remote location 
from which the member participates, shall be recorded in the meeting minutes; notwithstanding this disclosure 
requirement, the specific medical condition(s) or related clinical information affecting the member requesting 
virtual participation shall not be publicly disclosed but will instead be treated as consistent with Protected 
Health Information. The nature of the personal matter shall also be included in the minutes. T he remote location 
from which the member participates need not be open to the public and may be identified in the minutes by 
general description. 
2.20 
Limitation: Members may only participate through electronic communication due to personal matters for 
no more than two meetings of the DUR Board or committee vote to disapprove the member’s electronic 
participation from a remote location, such disapproval shall be recorded in the minutes. 
2.21 
 
Formatted: No underline


--- Page 6 ---
4 
 
2.22 
 
2.23 
Electronic Participation in Meetings During Declared States of Emergency – The DUR Board may meet 
by electronic communication means without a quorum of the public body physically assembled at one location 
when the Governor has declared a state of emergency in accordance with Virginia Code § 44-146.17 or the 
locality in which the public body is located has declared a local state of emergency pursuant to Virginia Code § 
44-146.21, provided that (i) the catastrophic nature of the declared emergency makes it impracticable or unsafe 
to assemble a quorum in a single location and (ii) the purpose of the meeting is to provide for the continuity of 
operations of the DUR Board or the discharge of its lawful purposes, duties, and responsibilities. The DUR 
Board shall: 
2.24 
 
2.25 
Give public notice using the best available method given the nature of the emergency, which notice shall 
be given contemporaneously with the notice provided to members of the DUR Board; 
2.26 
Arrange for public access to such meeting through electronic communication means, including 
videoconferencing if already used by the DUR Board; 
2.27 
Provide the public with the opportunity to comment at DUR Board meeting when public comment is 
customarily received. 
The nature of the emergency, the fact that the meeting was held by electronic communication means, and the type of 
electronic communication means by which the meeting was held shall be stated in the minutes. 
 
ARTICLE 111III 
DUR Board Authority 
 
3.1 
Powers and Duties — The DUR Board shall review and approve the retrospective drug utilization review 
criteria and standards. A listing of approved criteria and standards for use in prospective drug utilization reviews 
shall also be established. The approved criteria and standards may include commercial software packages, drug 
interaction handbooks, and other published and/or written criteria. The DUR Board shall recommend educational 
intervention programs and shall evaluate the success of educational interventions and make recommendations for 
modifications to the educational intervention program 
 
3.2 
The DUR Board shall submit a report at least semi-annually evaluating the success of interventions and 
making recommendations for modifications to the educational program, if appropriate. The DUR Board shall 
evaluate the educational program developed by DMAS or DMAS' vendor pursuant to the requirements of these 
regulations and make recommendations concerning the appropriate mix of intervention approaches. 
 
3.3 
The DUR Board shall submit a report on an annual basis to the Director of DMAS for submission to the 
Virginia Secretary of Health and Human Services. The report shall include a description of the activities of the DUR 
Board, including the nature and scope of the prospective and retrospective DUR programs, a summary of the 
interventions used an assessment of the impact of the educational interventions on quality of care, and an estimate 
of the cost savings generated as a result of the program and other information specified by the Director. DMAS 
shall prepare and submit, on an annual basis, a report to the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services that 
incorporates the DUR Board’s report and conforms to the requirements set forth in 42 CFR § 456.712. 
 
3.4 
The activities of the DUR Board and the Medicaid fraud programs are and shall be maintained as separate. 
The DUR Board shall refer suspected cases of fraud and abuse to the appropriate fraud and abuse control unit with 
the Medicaid agency. 
 


--- Page 7 ---
5 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
DUR Board Officers 
 
4.1 
Term of Office – At the first meeting of the DUR Board after July 1 of each year, the DUR Board shall 
elect officers from its membership for the coming DMAS fiscal year. Those elected shall assume their offices 
immediately following their election and shall serve until their successors are elected. The Director of DMAS shall 
fill any vacancy on the DUR Board, other than by expiration of term, for the unexpired portion of the term. 
 
4.2 
Type of Officers – The DUR Board shall have a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson. 
 
4.3 
Duties of Officers 
 
4.3.1 
The Chairperson of the DUR Board shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the DUR Board; 
appoint members to committees; vote as any other member of the DUR Board on any issue; perform other 
duties which may be delegated by the DUR Board; and delegate to the Vice Chairperson such duties as may 
be appropriate. 
The Chairperson shall work closely with the Director of DMAS or his/her designee in determining the type 
of involvement that will enable DUR Board members to carry out their responsibilities. 
 
4.3.2 
The Vice Chairperson shall assume all the powers and duties of the Chairperson in the absence of 
the Chairperson at any meeting or in the event that the Chairperson is disabled or the office is vacant. The 
Vice Chairperson shall also perform such other duties as requested by the DUR Board or by the 
Chairperson. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Committees 
 
5.1 
Committees - Committees may be constituted at any time by action of the full DUR Board or the 
Chairperson. Such committees shall be formed when necessary for the efficient functioning of the DUR Board. 
Members of a committee and its chairperson shall be appointed by the Chairperson from among the membership of 
the DUR Board. At the time a committee is created, its mission shall be specifically established by action of the 
DUR Board or by the Chairperson. In creating such committees, the Chairperson shall specify the time within 
which the committee is to make its report(s) to the DUR Board. 
 
5.2 
Activities – The DUR Committee’s activities include, but are not limited to, the review of patient, 
pharmacist, and physician exceptional drug utilization profiles generated from retrospective reviews applying 
knowledge and experience as a professional and the retrospective criteria and standards approved by the DUR 
Board. 
 
Develop and recommend modifications to the prospective and retrospective standards based on clinical experience, 
new literature findings, and communications from practitioners pursuant to the educational program. 
 
Make referrals in a manner consistent with the rules adopted by the DUR Board to the appropriate intra agency 
division in instances where an exceptional drug use pattern is suggestive of fraud or abuse. 
 
Provide technical expertise to assist DMAS staff in the compilation of reports and recommendations to be presented 


--- Page 8 ---
6 
 
to the DUR Board and the director. 
ARTICLE VI 
DUR Board Documents 
 
6.1 
Official Papers All official records of the DUR Board shall be kept on file at DMAS and shall be open to 
inspection. All files shall be maintained for five years. Minutes of the DUR Board shall be permanently retained. 
 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Public Participation 
 
7.1       Public Participation — Citizens may attend all DUR Board meetings, except closed sessions as defined by 
the Freedom of Information Act and may record the proceedings in writing or using a recording device. The DUR 
Board may make and enforce reasonable rules regarding the conduct of persons attending its meeting. 
 
7.2 
Presentations to the DUR Board - Opportunities shall be provided for individuals or citizens representing a 
group or groups to appear on the agenda of a regular meeting of the DUR Board. Requests to appear before the 
DUR Board should be made in writing and received thirty (30) days before a scheduled meeting, including subject 
matter and speaker name in order that they may be included on the agenda. Please send information to the DUR 
Board Coordinator, Rachel.cain@dmas.virginia.gov. The Chairperson may waive the 30-day requirement. The 
Chairperson will designate which presentations will be heard,. In honoring such requests, the DUR Board will limit 
presentations to five (5) minutes, unless the Chairperson grants an extension. 
 
ARTICLE VIII 
Revisions and Compliance 
 
8.1       Amendments — The By-Laws of the DUR Board may be amended at any regular meeting of the DUR 
Board by a majority vote, provided that the proposed action was submitted in writing at the previous regular 
meeting of the DUR Board and is included in the notice of the meeting at which a vote is to be taken. 
 
8.2       Review — The By-Laws shall be reviewed in total at least every two years, with a limited annual review for 
compliance with the Code of Virginia and Section 4401, 1927(g) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. 
Revisions shall be made as necessary and after approval by the Director of DMAS, the By-Laws signed and dated to 
indicate the time of last review. 
 
8.3 
Effective Date— the foregoing By-Laws shall go into effect on the 12th day of June 2025. 
 
Approved: 
Rachel Cain, PharmD 
Chair, DUR Board 
 
 
Cheryl Roberts, JD 
Director, Department of Medical Assistance Services 
 
 
Formatted: Highlight
Formatted: Highlight


--- Page 9 ---
7 
 
Date of last review: June 12, 2025 
Formatted: Highlight


--- Page 10 ---
DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW BOARD 
POLICY FOR THE REMOTE PARTICIPATION OF MEMBERS 
1. AUTHORITY AND SCOPE  
a. This policy is adopted pursuant to the authorization of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.3 
and is to be strictly construed in conformance with the Virginia Freedom of 
Information Act (VFOIA), Va. Code §§ 2.2-3700-3715. 
b. This policy shall not govern an electronic meeting conducted to address a 
state of emergency declared by the Governor. Any meeting conducted by 
electronic communication means under such circumstances shall be governed 
by the provisions of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.2. This policy also does not apply 
to an all-virtual public meeting.  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
a. “DUR Board” means the Drug Utilization Review Board or any committee, 
subcommittee, or other entity of the Drug Utilization Review Board.   
b. “Member” means any member of the Drug Utilization Review Board.  
c. “Remote Participation” means participation by an individual Member of the 
DUR Board by electronic communication means in a public meeting at which 
a quorum of the DUR Board is physically assembled, as defined by Va. Code 
§ 2.2-3701. 
d. “Meeting” means a meeting as defined by Va. Code § 2.2-3701. 
e. “Notify” or “notifies,” for purposes of this policy, means written notice, such 
as email or letter. Notice does not include text messages or communications 
via social media, messaging applications, or other instant messaging 
applications or systems. 
 
3. MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS  
Regardless of the basis for the Member’s participation in a meeting from a remote 
location by electronic communication means, the following conditions must be met 
for the member to participate remotely: 
a. A quorum of the DUR Board must be physically assembled at the primary or 
central meeting location (For purposes of determining whether a quorum is 
physically assembled, a Member who is either a person with a disability as 
defined in Va. Code § 51.5-40.1 and uses remote participation as provided 
under Section 4.a.i below or is a caregiver for a person with a disability and 
uses remote participation as provided under Section 4.a.ii below counts 
toward the quorum as if the individual was physically present); and  
b. Arrangements have been made for the voice of the remotely participating 
member to be heard by all persons at the primary or central meeting location. 
If at any point during the meeting the voice of the remotely participating 
member is no longer able to be heard by all persons at the meeting location, 


--- Page 11 ---
Appendix A 
2 
 
the remotely participating member shall no longer be permitted to participate 
remotely. 
 
4. PROCESS TO REQUEST REMOTE PARTICIPATION 
a. On or before the day of the meeting, and at any point before the meeting 
begins, the requesting Member must notify the DUR Board Chair (or the 
Vice-Chair if the requesting Member is the Chair) that he/she is unable to 
physically attend the meeting due to (i) a temporary or permanent disability 
or other medical condition that prevents the Member’s physical attendance, 
(ii) a family member’s medical condition that requires the Member to provide 
care for such family member, thereby preventing the Member’s physical 
attendance or the Member is a caregiver who must provide for a person with 
a disability at the time the public meeting is being held thereby preventing 
the Member’s physical attendance, (iii) the Member’s principal residence 
location is more than 60 miles from the meeting location, or (iv) a personal 
matter and identifies with specificity the nature of the personal matter.   
b. If the requesting Member is unable to physically attend the meeting due to a 
personal matter, the requesting Member must state with specificity the nature 
of the personal matter. Remote participation due to a personal matter is 
limited each calendar year to two meetings or 25 percent of the meetings held 
per calendar year rounded up to the next whole number, whichever is greater. 
There is no limit to the number of times that a member may participate 
remotely for the other authorized purposes listed in (i)-(iii) in subsection 4.a 
above. 
c. The requesting Member is not obligated to provide independent verification 
regarding the reason for his/her nonattendance, including the temporary or 
permanent disability or other medical condition or the family member’s 
medical condition that prevents the Member’s physical attendance at the 
meeting. 
d. The Chair (or the Vice-Chair if the requesting Member is the Chair) shall 
promptly notify the requesting Member whether the request is in 
conformance with this policy, and therefore approved or disapproved. 
 
5. PROCESS 
TO 
CONFIRM 
APPROVAL 
OR 
DISAPPROVAL 
OF 
PARTICIPATION FROM A REMOTE LOCATION 
 
When a quorum of the DUR Board has assembled for the meeting, the DUR Board 
shall vote to determine whether: 
a. The Chair’s decision to approve or disapprove the requesting Member’s 
request to participate from a remote location was in conformance with this 
policy; and  
b. The voice of the remotely participating member can be heard by all persons 
at the primary or central meeting location. 


--- Page 12 ---
Appendix A 
3 
 
 
6. RECORDING IN MINUTES 
a. If the Member is allowed to participate remotely due to a temporary or 
permanent disability or other medical condition, a family member’s medical 
condition that requires the member to provide care to the family member, or 
because the Member’s principal residence is located more than 60 miles from 
the meeting location the DUR Board shall record in its minutes (1) the DUR 
Board’s approval of the Member’s remote participation; and (2) a general 
description of the remote location from which the Member participated. 
b. If the Member is allowed to participate remotely due to a personal matter, 
such matter shall be cited in the minutes with specificity, as well as how many 
times the Member has attended remotely due to a personal matter, and a 
general description of the remote location from which the Member 
participated. 
c. If a Member’s request to participate remotely is disapproved, the disapproval, 
including the grounds upon which the requested participation violates this 
Policy or VFOIA, shall be recorded in the minutes with specificity. 
 
7. CLOSED SESSION 
If the DUR Board goes into closed session, the Member participating remotely shall 
ensure that no third party is able to hear or otherwise observe the closed meeting. 
8. STRICT AND UNIFORM APPLICATION OF THIS POLICY 
This Policy shall be applied strictly and uniformly, without exception, to the entire 
membership, and without regard to the identity of the Member requesting remote 
participation or the matters that will be considered or voted on at the meeting.  
The Chair (or Vice-Chair) shall maintain the Member’s written request to participate 
remotely and the written response for a period of one year, or other such time 
required by records retention laws, regulations, and policies. 
 
Revised and Adopted – September 2025 


--- Page 13 ---
Appendix B 
 
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES 
DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW BOARD 
POLICY FOR ALL-VIRTUAL MEETINGS 
1. AUTHORITY AND SCOPE  
a. This policy is adopted pursuant to the authorization of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.3 
and is to be strictly construed in conformance with the Virginia Freedom of 
Information Act (VFOIA), Va. Code §§ 2.2-3700 through 2.2-3715. 
b. This policy shall not govern an electronic meeting conducted to address a 
state of emergency declared by the Governor. Any meeting conducted by 
electronic communication means under such circumstances shall be governed 
by the provisions of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.2.  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
a. “DUR Board” means the Department of Medical Assistance Services Drug 
Utilization Board  or any committee, subcommittee, or other entity of the 
Department of Medical Assistance Services Drug Utilization Review Board.   
b. “Member” means any member of the Department of Medical Assistance 
Services Drug Utilization Review Board.  
c. “All-virtual public meeting” means a public meeting conducted by the DUR 
Board using electronic communication means during which all members of 
the public body who participate do so remotely rather than being assembled 
in one physical location, and to which public access is provided through 
electronic communication means, as defined by Va. Code § 2.2-3701. 
d. “Meeting” means a meeting as defined by Va. Code 2.2-3701. 
e. “Notify” or “notifies,” for purposes of this policy, means written notice, 
including but not limited to, email or letter. Notice does not include text 
messages or communications via social media, messaging applications, or 
other instant messaging applications or systems. 
 
3. WHEN AN ALL-VIRTUAL MEETING MAY BE AUTHORIZED  
An all-virtual public meeting may be held under the following circumstances:  
a. It is impracticable or unsafe to assemble a quorum of the DUR Board in a 
single location, but a state of emergency has not been declared by the 
Governor; or 
b. Other circumstances warrant the holding of an all-virtual public meeting, 
including, but not limited to, the convenience of an all-virtual meeting; and  
i. The DUR Board has not had more than two all-virtual public 
meetings, or more than 50 percent of its meetings rounded up to the 
next whole number, whichever is greater, during the calendar year; 
and 


--- Page 14 ---
Appendix B 
 
ii. The DUR Board’s last meeting was not an all-virtual public meeting.  
 
4. PROCESS TO AUTHORIZE AN ALL-VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING  
a. The DUR Board may schedule its all-virtual public meetings at the same time 
and using the same procedures used by the DUR Board to set its meetings 
calendar for the calendar year; or 
b. If the DUR Board wishes to have an all-virtual public meeting on a date not 
scheduled in advance on its meetings calendar, and an all-virtual public 
meeting is authorized under Section 3 above, the DUR Board Chair may 
schedule an all-virtual public meeting provided than any such meeting 
comports with VFOIA notice requirements.  
 
5. ALL-VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS  
The following applies to any all-virtual public meeting of the DUR Board that is 
scheduled in conformance with this Policy: 
 
a. The meeting notice indicates that the public meeting will be all-virtual and 
the DUR Board will not change the method by which the DUR Board chooses 
to meet without providing a new meeting notice that comports with VFOIA; 
b. Public access is provided by electronic communication means that allows the 
public to hear all participating members of the DUR Board;  
c. Audio-visual technology, if available, is used to allow the public to see the 
Members of the DUR Board; 
d. A phone number, email address, or other live contact information is provided 
to the public to alert the DUR Board if electronic transmission of the meeting 
fails for the public, and if such transmission fails, the Board takes a recess 
until public access is restored; 
e. A copy of the proposed agenda and all agenda packets (unless exempt from 
VFOIA disclosure requirements) are made available to the public 
electronically at the same time such materials are provided to the Board; 
f. The public is afforded the opportunity to comment through electronic means, 
including written comments, at meetings where public comment is 
customarily received;  
g. There are no more than two Members of the DUR Board together in one 
physical location; and; 
h. When audio-visual technology is available, a Member shall, for purposes of 
a quorum, be considered absent from any portion of the meeting during 
which visual communication with the Member is voluntarily disconnected 
or otherwise fails or during which audio communication involuntarily fails. 
 
 
 


--- Page 15 ---
Appendix B 
 
6. RECORDING IN MINUTES 
Meetings are taken as required by VFOIA and must include the fact that the meeting 
was held by electronic communication means and the type of electronic 
communication means used.  
7. CLOSED SESSION 
If the DUR Board goes into closed session, transmission of the meeting will be 
suspended until the public body resumes to certify the closed meeting in open 
session.  
Revised and Adopted – September 2025
