STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40430\Minutes_DMAS_40430_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Minutes Draft 
 
Name of Meeting:  
 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board  
Date of Meeting: 
 
 
 
December 11, 2025 
Length of Meeting:  
 
 
3 hours and 1 minute 
 
       
Location of Meeting: 
 
 
DMAS Board Room 102 
 
 
Members Present: 
Rachel Cain, PharmD, Chair 
Elizabeth Gaughan, MD, Vice-Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Michele Thomas, PharmD 
Elizabeth Krieger, MD 
Brian Trentler, RPh 
Denise Lowe, PharmD 
Denese Gomes, NP 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                         
Members Not Present: 
Jack Weisskohl, NP  
Melissa Chouinard, MD 
Wendy Nash, PharmD 
Seth Brant, MD 
 
DMAS Attendees: 
Greg Barabell, MD, Chief Medical Officer 
JoeMichael Fusco, PharmD, Pharmacy Manager  
Arielle Abbate, PharmD, Compliance Pharmacist 
Brittany Snellings, CPhT, SHRM-CP, VCARM, Pharmacy Systems Administrator 
Morgan Greer, Senior Assistant Attorney General, Virginia Office of the Attorney 
General 
 
Contractors:    
David D’Amico, PharmD, Director, Clinical Account Services, Prime Therapeutics 
Nancy Eldin, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Matthew Estes, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Jeni Hodzic, CPhT, Account Manager Senior, Prime Therapeutics 
 
Visitors: 
Brad Burmeister 
Melissa McDonnell 
Bill Tassone 
Kristie Bryerton 
AnnMarie O’Toole  
 
 
 
Mark Stephens 


--- Page 2 ---
 
2 
 
Joe Kupiec 
David Large  
Beth Lubelczyk 
Devin Pence  
Steve McRae 
Laurie Mauthe
Call to Order and Introductions 
 
Dr. Cain welcomed and thanked everyone for attending the DUR meeting.  
 
Dr. Cain called the meeting to order at 1:00 pm.  
 
Minutes – June 12, 2025 
 
Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the June 12, 2025 minutes as submitted. Dr. Gaughan 
seconded the motion.  
 
Review DUR By-Laws 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the by-laws.  Two appendices were added to the by-laws to 
allow for virtual meetings under certain circumstances. The by-laws will be reviewed again 
and voted on at the next DUR meeting in March 2026. 
 
New Drugs  
 
The DUR Board reviewed twenty new drugs: Alyftrek™, Attruby™, Avmapki™ Fakzynja™, 
Blujepa®, Brinsupri™, Crenessity™, Gomekli™, Hernexeos®, Ibtrozi™, Leqembi® Iqlik™, 
Modeyso™, Ojemda™, Onapgo™, Orlynvah™, Revuforj®, Romvimza™, Sephience™, 
Strensiq®, Wayrilz™, Zelsuvmi™. The DUR board also reviewed four physician 
administered drugs: Amvuttra®, Lenmeldy™, Leqembi®, and Ryoncil®. The Impact Reports 
and the report for the utilization of these new drugs for FFS and MCOs were reviewed. 
The board proposed that for all service authorization forms, renewal sections be updated 
to reflect “Does the member continue to meet the above criteria (Questions 1 through x)”. 
The board also discussed adding a topic on a future meeting agenda to discuss the scope 
and role of the board as related to service authorization criteria verbiage. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Alyftrek™. The board proposed that 
monitoring requirements be updated in the SA form to reflect that monitoring be 
conducted at time frames as defined in the package insert. Denese Gomes motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Thomas seconded 
the motion.  
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
3 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Attruby™. Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Avmapki™ Fakzynja™. Dr. Krieger 
motioned to approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Blujepa®. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Denese Gomes seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Brinsupri™. The board proposed to 
remove bullet four from question three, “Member has had at least two pulmonary 
exacerbations,” from the criteria. Dr. Krieger motioned to approve the clinical criteria with 
the aforementioned changes and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Crenessity™. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: moving “Is the member four years of age or older” to be 
the first question and removing question five regarding the member continuing 
glucocorticoid therapy. Denese Gomes motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the 
aforementioned changes and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Gomekli™. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Hernexeos®. Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Ibtrozi™. Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Leqembi® and Leqembi® Iqlik™. Updates 
to the Leqembi® Iqlik™ criteria proposed by the board included: adding a free text line for 
question 2.b. to allow for the provider to state the clinical assessment tool that has been 
used and removing question six baseline MRI requirement. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the Leqembi® Iqlik™ clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. 
Krieger seconded the motion. The board also reviewed medical criteria for the 
intravenous physician administered Leqembi® product. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve 
the Leqembi® clinical criteria and Denese Gomes seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Modeyso™. Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 


--- Page 4 ---
 
4 
 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Ojemda™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Onapgo™. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: adding that the product be prescribed by or in 
consultation with a neurologist and removing “advanced” from the Parkinson’s Disease 
diagnosis. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the aforementioned 
changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Orlynvah™. The board had questions 
surrounding the blood dyscrasia contraindication for this drug, and Dr. Thomas motioned 
to table the criteria discussion until blood dyscrasias can be further defined. Denese 
Gomes seconded the motion, and this form will be brought back to the board at a 
subsequent meeting. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Revuforj®. Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Romvimza™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Sephience™. The board proposed 
updating the specialist in the area of the member’s diagnosis from metabolic disorders to 
genetics. The board also discussed question seven, which discusses requiring a trial and 
failure of generic sapropterin. The board decided to table further discussion about the 
criteria until this question can be updated. Dr. Krieger motioned to table the clinical criteria 
and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion. This form will be reviewed at a subsequent 
meeting. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Strensiq®. The board proposed rewording 
bullet points under question two to place the third and fourth bullets as sub-bullets under 
“Member was less than 18 years of age at onset”. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the 
clinical criteria with the aforementioned change and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Wayrilz™. Denese Gomes motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Zelsuvmi™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 


--- Page 5 ---
 
5 
 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Amvuttra®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included simplifying the diagnostic criteria to state the member 
has a definitive diagnosis of hATTR amyloidosis as identified by molecular genetic testing. 
Dr. Gaughan motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the aforementioned change 
and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Lenmeldy™. The board discussed the 
criteria and it was decided to approve the criteria as written, but to periodically review cell 
and gene therapy criteria at future meetings. Dr. Gaughan motioned to approve the 
clinical criteria and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Ryoncil®.   Dr. Gaughan motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Denese Gomes seconded the motion. 
 
 
Topics for Discussion 
 
Antipsychotic Medications in Children - The DUR Board reviewed Antipsychotic 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs.  A five-year trend report was provided 
with bullet points showing interventions over the past five years. Claims, diagnosis codes, 
and behavioral therapies were also reviewed for the five youngest members in the report. 
 
Antidepressant Medications in Children - The DUR Board reviewed Antidepressant 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-year trend report was provided 
with bullet points showing interventions over the past five years. Claims, diagnosis codes, 
and behavioral therapies were also reviewed for the five youngest members in the report. 
 
Mood Stabilizer Medications in Children - The DUR Board reviewed Mood Stabilizer 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-year trend report was provided 
with bullet points showing interventions over the past five years. Claims, diagnosis codes, 
and behavioral therapies were also reviewed for the five youngest members in the report. 
 
Overlaps in Antipsychotics, Antidepressants, and Mood Stabilizers in Children - 
The DUR Board reviewed Overlaps in Antipsychotics, Antidepressants, and Mood 
Stabilizers in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-year trend report was provided 
with bullet points showing interventions over the past five years. Claims, diagnosis codes, 
and behavioral therapies were also reviewed for the five youngest members in the report. 
 


--- Page 6 ---
 
6 
 
Synagis – The DUR Board reviewed the Synagis service authorization fax form. This 
form will be discontinued at the end of the year as Synagis is being discontinued. 
 
Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist (GLP-1 RA) Utilization – The DUR Board 
reviewed Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist Utilization reports for FFS and 
MCOs, at the suggestion of the P&T Committee. The reports included a breakdown of 
member adherence to therapy for GLP-1 RA drugs for weight loss and for diabetes and 
comparison to a published GLP-1 RA adherence study from Prime Therapeutics. The 
board requested that this report continue to be discussed at future meetings and updated 
as new data is available.  
 
The following topics of discussion were tabled for a future meeting in the interest of time: 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics 
Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines, and Antipsychotics 
Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids 
 
Reports – The following reports were tabled for a future meeting in the interest of time: 
ProDUR 
Recent RetroDUR Activity 
RetroDUR Criteria Estimates 
Utilization Analysis 
Drugs from the Prime Therapeutics Quarterly Pipeline. 
 
DUR Quarterly Newsletter – The June 2025 and September 2025 DUR Quarterly 
Newsletters were available in the DUR binder for review. 
 
Public Comment – Dr. Cain opened the meeting for public comment.  
 
Next DUR Meetings 
                        
 
 
 
 
• March 12, 2026 
• June 11, 2026 
 
 
Dr. Gaughan motioned to adjourn the meeting. Dr. Cain seconded the motion.  
Meeting adjourned at 4:01 pm.
