STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42511\Minutes_DMAS_42511_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Impact Monitoring Subcommittee Meeting 
DRAFT Minutes 
Friday, October 17, 2025 
 
I. Welcome and Subcommittee Purpose. Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, welcomed the 
following members of the CHIPAC to the inaugural meeting of the ad hoc Federal Impact 
Monitoring Subcommittee at 11:01am:  
• Joanna Fowler, Virginia Health Care Foundation – joined virtually (1A) 
• Emily Moore, Voices for Virginia’s Children (CHIPAC Vice Chair) 
 
Victoria Richardson, Virginia Poverty Law Center, and Kelly Cannon, Virginia Hospital and 
Healthcare Association Foundation, not present for this inaugural meeting but will be part 
of the Subcommittee going forward. 
 
The Subcommittee’s purpose will be to monitor impacts of H.R. 1 and federal executive 
branch actions that impact children’s health insurance coverage. Mejia noted that some of 
these impacts will likely be secondary (e.g., H.R. 1 provisions that impact parents enrolled 
in Medicaid Expansion, and/or those who are lawfully residing immigrants, may produce 
“trickle-down” effects to children). 
 
Fowler suggested monitoring impacts from other health insurance affordability programs 
(e.g., Marketplace subsidies), given the potential for children and families to transition from 
those programs to Medicaid/FAMIS. 
 
II. Subcommittee Deliverable Discussion. Mejia suggested the December 2026 CHIPAC 
meeting to report the Subcommittee’s findings and potential recommendations to the full 
Committee, with potential for interim updates at quarterly meetings. Given the timing of the 
subsequent General Assembly session, the Subcommittee discussed a phased approach 
to delivering recommendations to the DMAS Director and/or Health & Human Resources 
Secretary, if recommendations indicate need for enacting legislation and/or appropriation. 
 
III. Future Subcommittee Meetings. Future meetings of the Federal Impact Monitoring 
Subcommittee will be held immediately following the CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee 
meetings. A workplan will be developed at the January 2026 meeting, which may include an 
outside speaker to address solutions developed by other states in preparation for H.R. 1 
changes. 
 
IV. Public Comment. One member of the public joined this inaugural meeting of the Federal 
Impact Monitoring Subcommittee. Mejia opened the floor for public comment. None was 
given. The meeting adjourned at 11:32.
