STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42263\Minutes_DMAS_42263_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
DRAFT 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT 
Meeting Minutes 
March 5, 2026 
 
A quorum of the full Committee attended this in-person meeting. The Microsoft Teams link 
was made available for members of the public to attend virtually. 
 
The following CHIPAC members were present at this in-person meeting: 
• Freddy Mejia 
 
 
The Commonwealth Institute 
• Sarah Stanton 
 
 
Joint Commission on Health Care 
• Cindy deSa  
 
 
Virginia Department of Health (substitute) 
• Hanna Schweitzer   
 
Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and 
Developmental Services 
• Irma Blackwell 
 
 
Virginia Department of Social Services 
• Joanna Fowler 
 
 
Virginia Health Care Foundation 
• Kelly Cannon 
 
 
Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
• Dr. Susan Brown   
 
American Academy of Pediatrics (VA Chapter) 
• Victoria Richardson 
 
Virginia Poverty Law Center 
• Martha Crosby 
 
 
Virginia Community Healthcare Association 
• Laura Harker 
 
 
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
• Tiffany Gordon  
 
 
Virginia League of Social Services Executives 
 
The following CHIPAC members attended virtually: 
• Heidi Dix 
 
 
 
Virginia Association of Health Plans (Reason 1) 
 
The following CHIPAC members did not attend: 
• Kenda Sutton-El 
 
 
Birth in Color 
• Alexandra Javna  
 
Virginia Department of Education 
 
I. Welcome and Announcements: Chair Freddy Mejia called the meeting to order at 
1:04 PM upon reaching an in-person quorum. Mejia welcomed new DMAS Director, 
Steve Ford. 
 
II. Director’s Remarks: On his fourth day as DMAS Director, Ford thanked the 
Committee for its work, and noted that in his previous 11-year tenure with DMAS, he 
had presented data to the CHIPAC. Ford noted that DMAS is working very hard to 
implement impending H.R. 1 changes, and that he looks forward to continuing to work 
with the Committee and seeing how children’s coverage has changed over the years. 
Mejia thanked Ford and presented him and Committee members with a CHIPAC mug. 
 


--- Page 2 ---
DRAFT CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – March 5, 2026 
 
 
2 
DRAFT 
III. CHIPAC Business:  
A. Review/Approval of minutes from December 11, 2025 meeting. These were 
posted publicly on Townhall and previously distributed to all CHIPAC members. Dr. 
Susan Brown introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Kelly Cannon 
seconded. The minutes were approved unanimously at 1:13pm.  
 
B. Membership updates. Kenda Sutton-El, Dr. Susan Brown, and Heidi Dix have 
agreed to renew their membership for an additional 2-year term. Emily Moore, 
CHIPAC Vice Chair, has left her role with Voices for Virginia’s Children, and will no 
longer serve on CHIPAC. Voices for Virginia’s Children is not a code-mandated 
member organization but a longstanding member organization, and it has put forth 
Dr. Liz Nigro for membership following Moore’s departure. Kelly Cannon introduced 
the motion to approve Dr. Nigro’s membership, which Sarah Stanton seconded. 
The Committee voted unanimously to approve.  
 
Lauren Eggleton, Virginia Health Catalyst, is also a candidate for CHIPAC 
membership. Tiffany Gordon introduced a motion to approve Eggleton’s 
membership, which Joanna Fowler seconded. The Committee voted unanimously 
in favor of approval.  
 
C. Officer Election. Chair Mejia solicited nominations for candidates for Vice Chair. 
Hearing none, Mejia nominated Joanna Fowler, Virginia Health Care Foundation. 
No other nominations were made, and the Committee voted unanimously in favor 
at 1:19pm.  
 
IV. DMAS Dashboard, Member Disenrollment and Churn: Danielle Nowell, Operations 
Lead in the DMAS Director’s Office presented about the new December 2025 
Disenrollment and Churn dashboard. The dashboard allows a user to filter by program 
(Fee-for-Service vs. Managed Care). It measures churn based on a six-month 
definition (e.g., if a member closed and re-enrolled in seven months, that would not be 
reflected as “churn” in this dashboard). Most re-enrolling members return to the same 
eligibility category.  
 
Mejia asked if/how appeals are captured. Regardless of appeal, a closed member will 
be captured as a disenrollment, and if they re-enroll within six months they’d be 
captured within the churn population. DMAS is currently working on how to capture 
more reasons for closure given the new requirements of H.R. 1.  
  
V. H.R. 1 Medicaid Eligibility Impacts: Sara Cariano, DMAS Director of Eligibility Policy, 
presented about how the agency is preparing for implementation, including 
necessitated changes to training, policies, and communication. Several imminent H.R. 
1 eligibility-focused changes apply exclusively to the Medicaid Expansion population. 
States are awaiting key CMS implementation guidance but are required to begin 
preparing to comply before it is issued. 
 
While most of the public attention thus far has gone toward H.R. 1’s work and 
community engagement requirement, additional changes are also noteworthy: 
Medicaid Expansion members will have their eligibility redetermined every 6 months 


--- Page 3 ---
DRAFT CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – March 5, 2026 
 
 
3 
DRAFT 
instead of once a year. Certain lawfully-residing immigrant adults will no longer qualify 
for Medicaid beginning October 1, 2026. States are required to check specific federal 
data sources to ensure that individuals are not simultaneously enrolled in multiple 
states, and that deceased members are removed timely from the rolls (Virginia already 
has a robust process to ensure that deceased people are disenrolled from Medicaid).  
 
Virginia’s key implementation goals of H.R.1 include ensuring that eligible Virginians 
maintain coverage and access to services, promoting efficiency and sustainability, and 
connecting those who require additional workforce-related supports to appropriate 
resources. DMAS will use learned lessons from the post-pandemic “Unwinding” to 
inform this work. 
 
VI. Virginia General Assembly Updates: Will Frank, DMAS Senior Advisor for 
Legislative Affairs, presented about the 2026 60-day (long) session. The GA is tasked 
with completing work on legislation and the Commonwealth’s biennial budget before 
March 13. Two bills related to maternal health remain alive/have passed both 
chambers. Several budget measures involving children’s coverage may remain in the 
final budget and will be closely monitored. 
 
Governor Spanberger will review passed legislation and sign, amend or veto it. The 
GA will reconvene on April 22nd for the veto session. Unless otherwise stated, the new 
bills and budget go into effect July 1, 2026. 
 
VII. Agenda for June 4, 2026 CHIPAC meeting (all virtual): If available, the Committee 
would like updates on the final biennial budget, Virginia’s Rural Health Transformation 
Project, updates on the 2024 Eligibility Study and recent cost report, and any available 
clarifying guidance from CMS on implementation of key pieces of H.R.1.  
 
Joanna Fowler offered that the Virginia Health Care Foundation’s annual Profile of 
Virginia’s Uninsured will be released by the June CHIPAC meeting and that a 
presentation may be available. 
 
VIII. Public Comment: Chair Mejia opened the floor for public comment at 2:50. No public 
comment was made. The meeting adjourned at 2:52.
