STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42272\Minutes_DMAS_42272_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
April 17, 2026 
10:00am 
 
A quorum of the CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee attended this in-person meeting. The 
meeting link was posted on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall website to allow members 
of the public to attend. 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members attended: 
• Freddy Mejia, The Commonwealth Institute  
Chair 
• Joanna Fowler, Virginia Health Care Foundation 
Vice Chair 
• Dr. Susan Brown, Virginia Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics 
• Kelly Cannon, Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members were not present: 
• Irma Blackwell, Virginia Department of Social Services 
 
The following DMAS staff were present: 
• Emily Roller, Senior Management Analyst; Policy Division 
 
I. 
Welcome – Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair 
Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, called the meeting to order at 10:04am. Mejia reminded the 
public that the purpose of the Executive Subcommittee meetings is to plan the upcoming full 
Committee meeting, to be held virtually on June 4. Mejia noted that the Federal Impact 
Monitoring Subcommittee, which typically meets immediately following the Executive 
Subcommittee, was cancelled and would resume meeting in July. 
 
II. 
CHIPAC Business 
a. Review and approval of minutes from previous meeting. Members reviewed the 
minutes from the January 16 Executive Subcommittee meeting. Joanna Fowler 
introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Kelly Cannon seconded. The 
subcommittee approved the minutes unanimously.  
 
b. Membership Updates. Ericca Facetti of the School-Based Health Alliance of 
Virginia reached out to inquire about CHIPAC membership. Kelly Cannon, Laura 
Harker, Victoria Richardson, and Tiffany Gordon have two-year terms that are set to 
expire in June and will be contacted about their interest in renewing. 
 
III. 
Planning for June 2026 Full Committee Meeting (all-virtual). The proposed agenda will 


--- Page 2 ---
 
DRAFT CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
April 17, 2026 
2 
include: 
 
1) CHIPAC Business  
a. Review/approval of minutes from previous Full Committee meeting 
b. Membership updates. 
 
2) Presentations. The Executive Subcommittee proposed discussing Virginia’s Rural 
Health Transformation Program and its potential impacts on children in rural areas, a 
lookback on recent trends in children’s health coverage in Virginia, and an update on 
DMAS’s implementation of the federal H¡R¡.7, including new Medicaid Expansion 
work/education/volunteer reporting requirements and 6-month redetermination 
cadence. 
 
Other potential topics include state budget items pertaining to children’s and/or 
pregnant women’s coverage, pending completion of the budget process. 
 
3) Committee Discussion. The Committee will be invited to discuss existing CHIPAC 
dashboards, following the presentation on enrollment trends. Q&A will be invited 
following each presentation. 
 
4) Public Comment.  
 
IV. 
Public Comment 
Mejia invited public comment at 10:40am. While one member of the public attended, no 
public comment was made. The meeting adjourned at 10:42am.
