STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40439\Minutes_DMAS_40439_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
September 4, 2025 
 
A quorum of the full Committee attended the in-person meeting. A Microsoft Teams link was 
made available for members of the public to attend virtually. 
 
The following CHIPAC members were present at this in-person meeting: 
• Freddy Mejia 
 
 
The Commonwealth Institute 
• Sarah Stanton 
 
 
Joint Commission on Health Care 
• Jennifer Macdonald 
 
Virginia Department of Health  
• Alexandra Javna  
 
Virginia Department of Education (DOE) 
• Jessica Caggiano   
 
Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and 
Developmental Services (DBHDS) 
• Niani Heath  
 
 
Virginia Department of Social Services (VDSS) 
• Joanna Fowler 
 
 
Virginia Health Care Foundation 
• Kelly Cannon 
 
 
Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
• Emily Moore (Vice Chair)  
Voices for Virginia’s Children 
• Heidi Dix 
 
 
 
Virginia Association of Health Plans 
• Dr. Susan Brown   
 
American Academy of Pediatrics (VA Chapter) 
• Ben Barber  
 
 
Virginia Health Catalyst 
• Victoria Richardson 
 
Virginia Poverty Law Center 
• Martha Crosby 
 
 
Virginia Community Healthcare Association 
 
The following CHIPAC members were present virtually (Reason code 1): 
• Kenda Sutton-EL  
 
Birth in Color 
 
 
I. Welcome and Announcements: Chair Freddy Mejia called the meeting to order at 
1:05 PM, Mejia quickly gave the floor to DMAS Director Cheryl Roberts. 
 
II. H.R. 1 implications for Medicaid/FAMIS: Director Roberts welcomed the Committee 
and members of the public. Roberts reminded the Committee that Medicaid/FAMIS 
currently cover 1.8 million Virginians, and gave an overview of coming changes under 
the federal H.R. 1 (dubbed the “One Big Beautiful Bill Act”). 
 
• Several changes under H.R. 1 will impact only adults enrolled in Medicaid 
Expansion: 
o Beginning in January 2027, Expansion adults will have eligibility redetermined 
twice annually, rather than annually, as is done now. Virginia will harness 
lessons learned during the “unwinding” (resumption of Medicaid/FAMIS 
redeterminations following the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency) to 


--- Page 2 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – September 4, 2025 
 
 
2 
 
accommodate this additional work.  
 
o H.R. 1’s work/community engagement requirements will also begin in January 
2027. Certain populations will be exempt from this requirement, which requires 
a minimum of 80 hours per month of qualified activities (to include education, 
work, or community service). Additional CMS guidance is expected no later 
than June 2026, and will likely come much earlier to allow states sufficient time 
to prepare their eligibility systems. 
 
o Retroactive Medicaid coverage, which is currently available for up to three 
months prior to the month of application, will be reduced to one month for 
Expansion enrollees and two months for all others, beginning in 2027. 
 
o States will be required to charge cost sharing (co-pays) to Expansion 
members, beginning in 2028. 
 
• States will be required to use revised federal systems to ensure individuals are not 
concurrently enrolled in multiple states, and ensure deceased individuals are 
identified and disenrolled. (Virginia already screens for both.)  
 
• H.R. 1 adjusts the federal Medicaid definition of a “qualified alien,” to exclude some 
immigration statuses that currently meet it. This will impact some existing non-
pregnant adult Medicaid members. 
 
• H.R. 1 places new limitations on provider taxes and state-directed payments. While 
a portion of Virginia’s Medicaid Expansion is financed by a provider tax, the 
moratorium on new provider taxes will not impact Expansion funding levels. 
 
• H.R. 1 establishes a new Rural Health Transformation Program, which will provide 
$50 billion in grant funding for states to support rural health initiatives. Half of 
RHTP funds will be distributed equally among successful applicant states, and the 
remaining half is competitive (distributed according to states’ level of rurality and 
relative risk of its rural health facilities). States must submit applications to CMS in 
early November, with awards announced by December 31.  
 
Virginia’s application efforts are being led by Secretary of Health and Human 
Resources Janet Kelly, with DMAS, VDH, VDSS, and DBHDS playing a supporting 
role. Listening sessions will be held throughout the Commonwealth in September. 
 
Roberts noted the importance of communicating that while parents may lose 
Expansion coverage due to not meeting work requirements, children should not lose 
coverage, and emphasized the importance of education and messaging.  
 
Mejia thanked Roberts, and agreed that outreach will be critical to ensure that parents 
of children under age 14 know they are exempt from the work requirement. Mejia 
reminded the Committee of the evidence base demonstrating strong correlation 
between parents’ coverage and children’s coverage and utilization. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – September 4, 2025 
 
 
3 
 
III. CHIPAC Business:  
 
• Review/Approval of minutes from June 5, 2025 meeting. Mejia invited updates 
or corrections but none were expressed. Emily Moore introduced a motion to 
approve the minutes, with Kelly Cannon seconding. The Committee voted 
unanimously to approve. 
 
• Membership updates. Mejia welcomed Ben Barber of Virginia Health Catalyst to 
his first meeting as a CHIPAC member, and noted that Emily Moore (vice chair) 
had agreed to continue serving on CHIPAC for a second two-year term beginning 
in December 2025. 
 
• Review and approval of 2026 meeting dates. Mejia offered the below dates for 
CHIPAC’s 2026 Full Committee and Executive Subcommittee meetings: 
 
Full Committee Meetings  
Thursday, March 5, 2026 (1:00–3:30 pm)  
Thursday, June 4, 2026 (1:00–3:30 pm)  Virtual Meeting 
Thursday, September 10, 2026 (1:00–3:30 pm) 
Thursday, December 10, 2026 (1:00–3:30 pm)  Virtual Meeting 
  
Executive Subcommittee Meetings  
Friday, January 16, 2026 (10:00–11:00 am) Virtual Meeting 
Friday, April 17, 2026 (10:00–11:00 am)  
Friday, July 17, 2026 (10:00–11:00 am) Virtual Meeting 
Friday, October 16, 2026 (10:00–11:00 am)  
 
Emily Moore introduced a motion to approve the 2026 meeting dates, which Sarah 
Stanton seconded. The Committee voted unanimously to approve the dates. 
 
IV. Cardinal Care Correspondence Center (CCCC): Danielle Nowell, Operations Lead 
for Administration and Coverage at DMAS, gave an update on the legislatively 
mandated centralized mailroom to manage administratively returned and inbound mail. 
DMAS modified its Cover Virginia contract to implement the mailroom using a phased 
approach. Contractual requirements include strict timelines for mail handling, with 
most applications and renewals required to be entered into the eligibility system within 
two business days (one business day for applications or renewals on which an 
individual attests pregnancy). 
 
Approximately 40% of new applications, and 10% of renewals, are anticipated to be 
submitted by mail to the CCCC. The timelines for application and renewal processing 
are the same regardless of the method of submission (online, mail, or telephonic). The 
CCCC, in collaboration with VDSS, will able to update member mailing addresses as 
they are received (without eligibility worker intervention). 
 
V. Cardinal Care Managed Care and Foster Care Specialty Plan: Christine Minnick, 
Child Welfare Specialist in the DMAS Maternal and Child Health Unit, shared about 
updates to Virginia’s Medicaid/FAMIS managed care program. Beginning in 2023, 


--- Page 4 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – September 4, 2025 
 
 
4 
 
Cardinal Care transitioned Virginia Medicaid/FAMIS to a single managed care delivery 
system. In July 2025, the new Cardinal Care Managed Care (CCMC) contract period 
began, with five Medicaid/FAMIS managed care organizations (MCO) offered 
statewide (Humana Healthy Horizons, Anthem HealthKeepers Plus, Aetna Better 
Health, Sentara, and UnitedHealthcare Community Plan). Other changes include full 
alignment of regional MCO open enrollment periods (including for FAMIS members, 
who had previously been allowed to change MCOs only at their annual renewal). 
Under CCMC, care coordination and/or management is available to all members 
based on individual need regardless of diagnosis or eligibility group. 
 
Anthem Healthkeepers Plus was chosen to manage a Foster Care Specialty Plan 
(FCSP), which will include children and youth in foster care, adoption assistance, and 
former foster care. The FCSP includes value-added benefits to support family 
preservation, reunification, employment, permanency, and clothing stipends. The 
FCSP also includes a dedicated support line and community-based regional teams. 
 
VI. Update on Virginia’s School-Based Health Centers: Dr. Bern’Nadette Knight, 
DBHDS Child and Family Program Specialist, shared that school-based health centers 
complement existing school health services by expanding access to primary care, 
behavioral health, vision, and other services. Virginia’s state-funded school-based 
mental health pilots began in 2022 and have since transitioned to a school-based 
health clinic (SBHC) model. DBHDS and VDOE are collaborating to provide direct 
contracts to school divisions, with RFPs open until October 13 for onsite or mobile 
SBHCs by Federally Qualified Health Centers or other healthcare providers. 
 
Medicaid/FAMIS 2025-2026 Back-to-School Outreach: Rachel Lawrence, DMAS 
Strategic Initiatives Specialist, gave an overview of the Cover Virginia website’s Back-
to-School page, including new outreach materials. DMAS’s Back-to-School campaign 
is in its 23rd year, with a goal of spreading the word about Medicaid/FAMIS for 
schoolchildren and their parents. To-date, more than 25,000 2025-26 outreach flyers 
have been mailed to schools for distribution. These are complemented by scripts, 
sample text messages, and digital outreach materials for schools and districts to use. 
Outreach materials can be ordered directly via coverva.dmas.virginia.gov.  
 
VII. Agenda for Dec 11, 2025 CHIPAC meeting (all-virtual): Possible topics include 
updates on children’s immunization policies and coverage, and updates on the VDH 
Title V Maternal and Child Health state plan.  
 
VIII. Public Comment: Mejia invited public comment beginning at 2:48 PM. No public 
comments were made. The meeting adjourned at 2:50 PM.
