STATE: Virginia
URL: https://www.dmas.virginia.gov/news-updates/press-releases/
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.dmas.virginia.gov/about-us/boards-and-public-meetings/2024-boards-and-public-meetings/

Press Releases $(document).ready(function(){ var container = ''; if ($('nav.secondary.nav-dropdown ul').length > 0) { $('nav.secondary.nav-dropdown ul').empty(); container = 'nav.secondary.nav-dropdown ul'; } Weglot.initialize({ api_key: 'wg_7030e4a98544c72497c5e0ab72b4ee3d5', switchers: [ { style: { full_name: true, with_name: true, is_dropdown: true, with_flags: true, flag_type: 'circle', invert_flags: false }, // Move switcher somewhere in the page location: { target: container, sibling: null }, cache: true, wait_transition: true, remove_unused_link_hooks: true } ], }); }); window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || []; function gtag() { dataLayer.push(arguments); } gtag('js', new Date()); gtag('config', 'G-5NG52NWZCZ'); Skip to main content Skip to footer Virginia Medicaid Menu Applicants Expand sub pages Applicants Applying for Medicaid Populations Served Commonly Asked Questions Eligibility Guidance Information for Noncitizens Members Expand sub pages Members Cardinal Care Benefits and Services Renew Coverage / Report a Change Find a Provider Providers Expand sub pages Providers Cardinal Care Provider Enrollment & Revalidation Claims and Billing Provider Memos & Communications Rates and Rate Setting Benefits & Services MES Portal Appeals Expand sub pages Appeals Applicant / Member Appeals Resources Provider Appeals Resources Agency and DMAS Contractor Resources Appeals Portal Data & Reports Expand sub pages Data & Reports Eligibility & Enrollment Programs & Services Cardinal Care Managed Care Financial Reports Quality & Population Health Value-Based Purchasing General Assembly Reports CMS Reports News Updates Expand sub pages News Updates State Declared Emergencies NEW Federal Requirements Press Releases About Us Expand sub pages About Us Our Administration Mission and Values Organizational Structure Boards and Public Meetings Contact Us Work with Us Upcoming Meetings 1115 Demonstration Waiver English English Spanish አማርኛ العربية‏ বাংলা Français Deutsch हिंदी 한국어 فارسی Русский Tagalog 中文 (繁體) اردو Tiếng Việt Yorùbá Expand Search Press Releases In this section News Updates NEW Federal-Requirements Expand sub pages NEW Federal-Requirements Federal Work Requirements Eligibility Changes for Non-U.S. Citizen Adults Six-Month Eligibility Renewals for Certain Adults State Declared Emergencies Expand sub pages State Declared Emergencies Hurricane Emergency Response DMAS Emergency Response Virginia Emergency Response Press Releases The latest press releases from the Department of Medical Assistance Services Commonwealth of Virginia Celebrates 20 Years of Cardinal Care Smiles 07.24.2025 RICHMOND – The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) are proud to celebrate a meaningful milestone. 20 years of Cardinal Care Smiles, the state’s Medicaid dental program that has helped brighten the lives and health of millions of Virginians. Virginia Medicaid Launches Cardinal Care Health Plans and Member Options 07.01.2025 RICHMOND – Today, Governor Youngkin and the Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) announced the launch of the new Cardinal Care Managed Care program. The five health plans that will serve Virginians eligible for Medicaid beginning July 1, 2025, are: Aetna Better Health of Virginia, Anthem HealthKeepers Plus, Humana Healthy Horizons of Virginia (new), Sentara Health Plans, and UnitedHealthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc. The program also includes a foster care specialty plan administered by Anthem HealthKeepers Plus. This initiative aligns with Governor Youngkin’s goal of ensuring that Virginia’s vulnerable populations receive high-quality health care coverage. Petersburg Library Presents: Winter Wonderland Holiday Workshop 12.02.2024 T’is the season for fun filled activities, refreshments, music, story time read alouds, and lots of joy! DMAS is happy to share an exciting, upcoming event at Petersburg Public Library on Wednesday, December 18! From 3:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Conference and Event Center, the Winter Wonderland Holiday Workshop will hold various craft workshops for making snow globes, hot cocoa cups, apple crisp cups, ornaments, tree crafts, and picture frames. Complete each craft workshop and receive a gift! Early admission begins at 1:30 p.m. for camps and daycare. Virginia Medicaid Announces Intent to Award Managed Care Contracts 02.29.2024 Richmond – The Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) posted a Notice of Intent to Award (NOIA) contracts after completing evaluations and negotiations of the proposals received in response to RFP 13330, Cardinal Care Managed Care (CCMC) program. DMAS intends to award statewide contracts for the CCMC program to Anthem HealthKeepers Inc., Aetna Better Health of Virginia, Humana Healthy Horizons of Virginia, Sentara Health Plans, and United Healthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc. Virginia Medicaid to Provide 12 Months of Protected Coverage for Children 01.10.2024 Richmond – The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) announced that children below the age of 19 enrolled in Virginia’s Medicaid and Family Access to Medical Insurance Security (FAMIS) programs will receive a 12-month period of protected coverage effective January 1, 2024. DMAS currently serves more than 800,000 Virginian children. Virginia Medicaid Announces Rebidding of Managed Care Contracts 09.01.2023 Richmond – The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) has announced today the rebid of Medicaid managed care contracts. DMAS currently serves 2.1 million Virginians through its Cardinal Care programs. DMAS Hosts Summit to Educate Stakeholders about Unwinding Process 03.09.2023 Richmond – The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) yesterday gathered over 300 health care advocates, Medicaid providers and others to provide education and answer questions about the return to normal enrollment process for all 2.2 million Medicaid members. Temporary Benefits for Several Virginia Assistance Programs Will End Soon 03.06.2023 Richmond - Several medical, food and financial assistance flexibilities and programs administered by the Virginia Department of Social Services (VDSS) and the Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) are set to expire due to recent changes in federal legislation. Se acerca el final de los beneficios temporales para varios programas de asistencia de Virginia 03.06.2023 Richmond - Varias flexibilidades y programas de asistencia médica, alimentaria y financiera administrados por el Departamento de Servicios Sociales de Virginia (VDSS) y el Departamento de Servicios de Asistencia Médica de Virginia (DMAS) caducarán debido a cambios recientes en la legislación federal. Virginia Medicaid to Transform Managed Care 10.04.2022 Richmond – Virginia Secretary of Health and Human Resources John Littel today announced that the Commonwealth’s Medicaid agency plans to launch a transformational new procurement next year to drive innovation and strengthen quality and accountability in its managed care program. 1 2 3 4 5 News Updates NEW Federal-Requirements Expand sub pages NEW Federal-Requirements Federal Work Requirements Eligibility Changes for Non-U.S. Citizen Adults Six-Month Eligibility Renewals for Certain Adults State Declared Emergencies Expand sub pages State Declared Emergencies Hurricane Emergency Response DMAS Emergency Response Virginia Emergency Response Press Releases Contact Us Communications For more information on press releases, please contact the media relations team . Email the Media Relations Team Department of Medical Assistance Services 600 East Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia. 23219 Navigate For Members News Updates MES Portal Freedom of Information Act Non-Discrimination Notice Privacy Practices __ For Providers Data and Reports Public Notices Virginia eVA Social pages Instagram Youtube Facebook LinkedIn አማርኛ | ﺔﯾﺑرﻌﻟا | Ɓàsɔ́ ɔ̀ -wùɖù-po-nyɔ̀ | বাংলা | 繁體中文 | Deutsch | ﯽﺳرﺎﻓ | Tagalog | Français | िहंदी | Igbo asusu | 한국어 | Русский| Español | ودرُا | Tiếng Việt | Yorùbárùbá © 2026 Privacy Practices Sitemap DMAS - Commonwealth of Virginia Back to top
