STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40447\Minutes_DMAS_40447_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
Virginia BAC General Meeting DRAFT Minutes - Page 1 of 5 
Medicaid Member Advisory Committee Meeting 
Department of Medical Assistance Services 
Via WebEx Videoconferencing 
 
September 15, 2025, Minutes 
 
Committee Members 
Ghadah Aljamali 
Martha Bryant 
LaSherron Diaz 
Sheila Johnson 
Amanda Plotner 
Sohail Safeer 
La'Tonya Slaton-Graham 
Yvette Thompson 
Craig Thomson 
Patricia Vandervelden 
Brian Marroquin 
Brian Roache’ 
Courtney Berry 
Mark Dixon 
Presenters 
Veronica Quinonez, Communications and Outreach Specialist, Organizer 
Lynne Vest, Member and Provider Relations Specialist, Organizer 
DMAS Staff 
Cheryl Roberts, Director 
Sarah Hatton, Deputy of Administration 
Jessica Annecchini, Senior Policy Advisor, Administration 
Tammy Whitlock, Deputy for Complex Care Services 
 
Adrienne Fegans,  
Tekeila Collins, 
Norman Gaines,  
Dorothy Swann, 
Jessica McKenzie,  
Emily Roller, 
 
Ivory Banks, Chief of Staff 
Lynne Vest, Member and Provider Relations Specialist, Organizer 
Veronica Quinonez, Communications and Outreach Specialist, Organizer 
Lynn Hamner, Senior Policy Analyst 
Joanne Atkins, Administrative Assistant 
Dave Bronson, Program Administrative Specialist 


--- Page 2 ---
 
Virginia BAC General Meeting DRAFT Minutes - Page 2 of 5 
Norman Gaines, AV Specialist, Technology Support 
Kristin Lough, Minutes 
  
 
Welcome and Call To Order 
 
Veronica Quinonez called to order the meeting of the Virginia Medicaid Beneficiary Advisory 
Council (BAC, Council, or Committee) at 10:12 a.m. on Monday, September 15, 2025, via 
Microsoft Teams Webinar online meeting platform.  Ms. Quinonez explained that the team 
would discuss the name change and that Committee members would have time to ask 
questions and share feedback during the meeting.  Ms. Quinonez covered the accessibility 
guidelines and the agenda.  She then introduced the DMAS Director, Cheryl Roberts. 
 
 
Review and Vote to Approve Minutes from Meeting on June 9, 2025 
 
Each of the BAC members were provided a copy of the June 9, 2025, meeting draft minutes, 
and the draft minutes were also posted on the Committee’s webpage on DMAS’ website, as 
well as on the Virginia Town Hall website.   
 
Lynne Vest made a motion to accept the draft minutes from the June 9, 2025, meeting.  Martha 
Bryant seconded the motion to accept the minutes.    The Committee then voted to approve the 
minutes with a unanimous vote. 
 
 
Welcome 
 
Welcome – Cheryl Roberts, DMAS Director  
        
   
Director Roberts greeted the Committee and thanked the Committee for their participation in 
the BAC meeting.  Director Roberts acknowledged the uncertainty and impending changes to 
Medicaid, and Director Roberts indicated that DMAS would continue to work on changes in 
response to CMS and Congress and translate those changes to BAC members.  She 
acknowledged the Big Beautiful Bill and outlined some of the expected changes, including 
increased renewal requirements for Expansion recipients, and noted that most BAC members 
would be unaffected.  The Rural Transformation Fund will provide $100 million to each state 
for five years to improve rural healthcare access.  DMAS will be competing for funds from 
another $500 million, and the leadership is touring throughout the state in preparation.   
 
The BAC is no longer optional, as it was when it was the Member Advisory Committee, and it 
is now mandatory.  Virginia was highlighted as an example of best practices.  Some members 
will be asked to work with the clinical team in a group that will be called the MAC.  Director 
Roberts introduced Ms. Quinonez. 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
Virginia BAC General Meeting DRAFT Minutes - Page 3 of 5 
Presentation - Turning the Member Advisory Committee into the Beneficiary Advisory 
Committee 
 
Veronica Quinonez – Communications and Outreach Specialist 
 
Ms. Quinonez introduced herself and allowed Lynne Vest to introduce herself to the BAC team.  
Policy changes should be made by consulting the individuals living the experience.  Input from 
people experiencing policy helps generate informed decisions and improve communication 
between policymakers and recipients. The MAC became the BAC because there will be another 
group called the MAC as part of the required councils.   
 
Member only advisory group completely made up of Medicaid members, their families, and 
other caregivers.  The focus will be family health and well-being goals, including quality of care, 
communications and member outreach, eligibility and enrollment, care delivery, availability of 
services, and other concerns.  States must provide staff support for the Committee and provide 
interactive and accessible meetings which occur quarterly.  Minutes, agendas, and applications 
for membership must be public.  The meetings will be more interactive, with polls and other 
ways to gain immediate feedback from members, and the presentations will be designed 
according to universal learning, which means fewer words per page. 
 
BAC members responded to a survey about the previous MAC.  Members were very satisfied 
or satisfied with the MAC.  Members liked hearing from other members and experiences as well 
as hearing from DMAS leadership.  Members liked hearing about changes and the ability to 
interact with DMAS and provide recommendations and suggestions.  
 
Questions and comments raised by Committee Members included:  
 
The BAC is useful because DMAS employees can intercede on behalf of members, particularly 
with Managed Care Organizations.  An example was preparing for the end of the Public Health 
Emergency and having someone to contact with questions.   
 
A member from a rural community appreciates access to nursing care and improvement of 
nursing facilities.  The member’s concerns included closing facilities and economic 
circumstances negatively impacting Medicaid and SNAP.  People in rural areas are forced to go 
to cities for services, but not all rural areas are as close to diverse resources.   
 
Members are glad to have an opportunity to interact with DMAS executives and let them hear 
what recipients experience.  It would be beneficial to present correct information to providers, 
because there are questions whether Medicaid recipients can receive and Medicaid will cover 
the cost of the COVID-19 vaccine.   
 
A member from another rural area expressed problems with transportation to providers and 
limitations on distance between a member’s home and provider’s office.  It has been beneficial 
to have contacts at DMAS to obtain providers and access to individuals.  This member spends 
hours weekly on the phone with the MCO to get appointments and transportation.  This member 
received minimal reimbursement for transportation to Washington DC and Maryland.  The 
member’s child was put on a two year waitlist for an evaluation, but she will be an adult by the 


--- Page 4 ---
 
Virginia BAC General Meeting DRAFT Minutes - Page 4 of 5 
time she is eligible for this evaluation.  She indicated that a care provider suggested that she 
move to another state to improve her child’s access to services. 
 
Another rural member highlighted similar transportation issues and significant communications 
issues.    
 
A member with special needs adult children outlined significant concerns when appealing MCO 
decisions.  He indicated that he is not able to receive paperwork from the MCO in preparation 
for the appeal.   
 
Pediatrics and behavioral health appear to be targeted for reduction in care because they are 
less profitable.  When looking at rural improvements, DMAS should consider pediatric needs.  
Pharmacy deserts are becoming larger and more frequent throughout the state.  Rural 
members benefit from telehealth and broadband access to reduce transportation time and 
costs.  Case management at MCOs should be better trained with more knowledge of healthcare 
in managing member access.  
 
Another member reiterated that reimbursement and communication is very difficult and 
improving those barriers would be wonderful.  The member suggested bringing providers to 
local clinics for members in the area to overcome the mentioned transportation concerns.  
When rules changed effective July 1, most communications about those rule changes were 
available to members around July 15 or 16.  She asked whether DMAS has done a study 
about the cost to the state for institutionalizing members throughout the state who are losing 
in-home care hours, because it may be that with reduction of hours, more people have to move 
into nursing facilities to receive appropriate care.  The member highlighted that the purpose of 
in-home care hours was to prevent people from being moved into nursing facilities.   
 
Ms. Quinonez and Ms. Vest thanked members for their comments and asked that members 
reach out to them after the meeting for additional assistance. Ms. Vest recommended an 
interdisciplinary care team meeting to help improve coverage, as sometimes paperwork does 
not include the necessary information to ensure coverage.   
 
Suggestions for improvement included clarification of parking and travel reimbursement.  A 
member suggested a large print BAC Book and to make sure each member receives the login 
link for every meeting.  Ms. Quinonez indicated that the BAC will try to get MCO 
representatives in future meetings and a deeper understanding of care coordination and how it 
should work.  She noted that it would be very important to hear how members respond to the 
care coordination information and provide their own lived experience to corroborate or refute 
that.   
 
Ms. Quinonez indicated that the BAC cannot be fully virtual due to a state regulation which 
requires that meetings alternate between virtual, in-person, and hybrid.  The BAC cannot have 
two virtual meetings back-to-back due to that regulation.  A member asked if the BAC could 
improve its reimbursement process, especially when members have to travel and stay 
overnight.  Ms. Quinonez discussed the new recruitment process for BAC members and asked 
the Committee to stay tuned for more information in December.  
 
 


--- Page 5 ---
 
Virginia BAC General Meeting DRAFT Minutes - Page 5 of 5 
Ms. Quinonez opened the meeting to public comment. 
 
 
Public Comment 
 
Craig Thompson highlighted the need for transformation in rural areas of the state.  He 
indicated that healthcare plans have a Byzantine fee structure and target gross margins.  
Medicaid has a fee structure but also has certain minimal care standards it must meet rather 
than solely a focus on profitability.  He indicated that continuing to discuss care improvements 
in rural areas will be important for the BAC.   
 
Sohail Safeer reiterated his desire to meet with MCO employees.  His Sentara case manager 
has 50 to 100 cases to coordinate, and he has been trying for two years to obtain a particular 
piece of medical equipment that appears to get lost in a communication loop.  
 
Brian Marroquin asked for policy clarification on income evaluation periods for ongoing eligibility 
evaluations.  Will local agencies evaluate 30 days, 90 days or what is the lookback period?  He 
also asked who would be making those policy decisions based on the changes, would it be the 
General Assembly, and where can he advocate about those policy changes. 
 
Martha Bryant noted that her son is in a long-term care facility that has an on-site pharmacy, but 
his facility is at risk of closure.  A number of facilities use CVS Caremark pharmacy, but there 
are problems with restricted formulary delivery turn-around times with CVS Caremark.  Some 
people wait as much as 10 days for a rare medication, and you must have medical justification 
to use a brand name rather than generic.  She stated that pre-authorizations appear to get lost 
and pharmacy can be as much of a headache as transportation.   
 
Adjournment 
 
Ms. Quinonez provided closing remarks, including thanking members for feedback that can be 
difficult but important to hear about the quality of care being received by members.  The next 
meeting will be December 8. 
 
Ms. Quinonez thanked members for their participation and adjourned the meeting at 11:55 
a.m.
