STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40432\Minutes_DMAS_40432_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
Name of Meeting: 
 
Pharmacy Liaison Committee 
Date of Meeting: 
 
December 19, 2025 
Length of Meeting:   
10:00AM – 11:00AM 
Location of Meeting: 
DMAS – Conference Room A & B 1st Floor 
 
 
 
 
 
Committee Members:  
David Christian - Virginia Community Healthcare Association (VCHA) 
Anne Leigh Kerr - Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) 
Derek Parvizi - Virginia Association of Chain Drug Stores ((VACDS) 
 
DMAS Staff: 
JoeMichael Fusco, PharmD, Pharmacy Manager 
Rachel Cain, PharmD 
Arielle Abbates, PharmD 
Brittany Snellings, CPhT  
 
Other Attendees:  
James Pickeral 
Cindy Warriner 
TP 
Cal Whitehead 
Otto Wachsmann 
 
Introductions 
The meeting started at 10:04 a.m. Dr. Cain welcomed everyone and asked the 
Committee members to introduce themselves. 
 
Charge of the Committee  
Dr. Cain gave an overview of the charge of the Committee as stated in the 2022 
Appropriation Act. 
The Department of Medical Assistance Services shall implement continued 
enhancements to the drug utilization review (DUR) program. The department shall 
continue the Pharmacy Liaison Committee and the DUR Board. The department shall 
continue to work with the Pharmacy Liaison Committee, meeting at least semi-annually, 
to implement initiatives for the promotion of cost-effective services delivery as may be 
appropriate. The department shall solicit input from the Pharmacy Liaison Committee 
regarding pharmacy provisions in the development and enforcement of all managed 
care contracts. The Pharmacy Liaison Committee shall include a Department of Medical 
Assistance Services Department of Medical Assistance Services Pharmacy Liaison 
Committee Meeting representative from the Virginia Community Healthcare Association 


--- Page 2 ---
to represent pharmacy operations and issues at federally qualified health centers in 
Virginia. The department shall report on the Pharmacy Liaison Committee's and the 
DUR Board's activities to the Board of Medical Assistance Services and to the 
Chairmen of the House Appropriations and Senate Finance and Appropriations 
Committees and the Department of Planning and Budget no later than December 15 
each year of the biennium. 
 
Cost Savings Proposals from Committee Members: 
Prior to each meeting, Dr. Cain requests the members provide input via email towards 
agenda topics. During the meeting, there was much discussion regarding, closing of 
independent pharmacies, Managed Care Organizations, rebates, Pharmacy Benefit 
Managers, and specialty pharmacies. 
PBM Study Overview: 
Virginia House Bill 2610 from the 2025 session requires the Department of Medical 
Assistance Services, by July 1, 2026, to select and contract with a third-party 
administrator to serve as the state pharmacy benefits manager to administer all 
pharmacy benefits for Medicaid recipients, including recipients enrolled in a managed 
care organization. The bill enumerates requirements for the Department's contract with 
the state pharmacy benefits manager. In addition, the bill directs the Department to 
engage an independent consultant to evaluate the implementation of a contract with a 
third-party pharmacy benefits manager pursuant to the bill.  
DMAS contracted with Myers and Stauffer LC (Myers and Stauffer) to conduct a PBM 
Study. Myers and Stauffer:  
o Provides a highly specialized team of pharmacists dedicated to advancing 
Medicaid and Medicare pharmacy programs through expert policy 
guidance and strategic benefit administration. 
o Has experience supporting Medicaid single PBM design, procurement, 
implementation, and operations. 
 
Jerry Dubberly, PharmD, MBA, Principal, Myers and Stauffer LC, presented an 
overview of the Medicaid Single PBM study to the PLC. Myers and Stauffer’s PBM 
Study included an assessment of Virginia’s Medicaid Pharmacy Program, including 
stakeholder engagement, review of other state Medicaid programs’ PBM contracting 
strategies, data analysis, development of an options analysis and recommendations, 
and an estimated fiscal impact. 
 
Other Business 
Next meeting is scheduled for July 9, 2026 
 
Adjournment  
The meeting adjourned at 10:53 a.m.
