STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40440\Minutes_DMAS_40440_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
December 11, 2025 
 
A quorum of the full Committee attended this all-virtual meeting. The Microsoft Teams link 
was made available for members of the public to attend. 
 
The following CHIPAC members were present: 
• Freddy Mejia (Chair) 
 
The Commonwealth Institute 
• Jennifer Macdonald 
 
Virginia Department of Health  
• Alexandra Javna  
 
Virginia Department of Education 
• Hanna Schweitzer   
 
Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and 
Developmental Services 
• Joanna Fowler 
 
 
Virginia Health Care Foundation 
• Mary Brandenburg  
 
Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
(substitute) 
• Emily Moore (Vice Chair)  
Voices for Virginia’s Children 
• Heidi Dix 
 
 
 
Virginia Association of Health Plans 
• Dr. Susan Brown   
 
American Academy of Pediatrics – VA Chapter 
• Victoria Richardson, Esq. 
Virginia Poverty Law Center 
• Martha Crosby 
 
 
Virginia Community Healthcare Association 
• Dana Williams  
 
 
Birth in Color (substitute) 
• Laura Harker 
 
 
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
• Tiffany Gordon  
 
 
Virginia League of Social Services Executives 
 
The following CHIPAC members did not attend: 
• Sarah Stanton 
 
 
Joint Commission on Health Care 
• Irma Blackwell 
 
 
Virginia Department of Social Services (VDSS) 
 
 
I. Welcome and Announcements. CHIPAC Chair Freddy Mejia called the meeting to 
order at 1:01pm. Mejia welcomed CHIPAC members and members of the public, and 
noted that the meeting would include a special, separate public comment period as 
part of the annual post-award forum for Virginia’s Maternal and Child Health 1115 
Demonstration waiver (FAMIS MOMS, FAMIS Select, and the 12-month Postpartum 
Extension). Mejia welcomed DMAS Director Cheryl Roberts. 
 
II. DMAS Director’s Remarks. Director Roberts noted that like other Executive Branch 
agencies within the Commonwealth, DMAS is preparing for the transition in 
administration in January. In addition, DMAS recently welcomed two new executive 
leadership team members: Dr. Greg Barabell, Chief Medical Officer, and Cheryl 


--- Page 2 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – December 11, 2025 
 
 
2 
 
Gallon, Deputy for Programs. DMAS has also completed “part three” of Cardinal Care 
transition, to carve in Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facilities (PRTF) into 
managed care. 
 
Like other states, DMAS is anticipating its award amount for the new federal Rural 
Health Transformation Program (at minimum, the state will be awarded $500 million 
over the 5-year project period). Roberts reminded the CHIPAC that these are not 
Medicaid dollars but may be of interest due to potential impacts to Maternal and Child 
Health. 
 
DMAS is also hard at work preparing to implement other changes due to the federal 
H.R. 1 legislation, including new work requirements and semi-annual eligibility 
redeterminations for Expansion members beginning in 2027. The state will seek input 
and assistance from community partners, including those represented on CHIPAC, as 
partnership is critical to success. 
 
III. CHIPAC Business:  
A. Review/Approval of minutes from September 4, 2025 meeting. Emily Moore 
introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Joanna Fowler seconded. The 
minutes were approved at 1:18pm with Tiffany Gordon abstaining and all other 
members voting affirmatively.  
 
B. Membership updates. Ben Barber has left his role at Virginia Health Catalyst, thus 
concluding his CHIPAC membership. CHIPAC will seek a potential new member 
with oral health (clinical or policy) experience. 
 
C. Officer Election. Per CHIPAC bylaws the Chair shall be elected in odd-numbered 
years to serve a two-year term. Moore nominated Mejia to serve a second 
consecutive two-year term, and no other nominations were made. Mejia was 
unanimously re-elected for a second Chair term to begin in January 2026. 
 
IV. Virginia’s FY26 – FY30 Title V State Action Plan (Maternal and Child Health 
Services Block Grant). Cindy deSa, MPH, MSW, LCSW, Maternal and Child 
Health/Title V Director in the Virginia Department of Health Office of Family Health 
Services Division of Child and Family Health provided an update on Virginia’s new 
State Action Plan. The Title V program is federally administered (HRSA Maternal and 
Child Health Bureau), via a funding formula based on state population and need. 
 
States are required to create a five-year action plan. Virginia’s includes six domains: 
Women/Maternal Health, Perinatal/Infant Health, Child Health, Adolescent Health, 
CYSHCN, and Cross-cutting/Systems-building. Each domain includes multiple 
initiatives that operate within VDH’s Offices of Family Health Services, Population 
Health, and/or Prevention and Health Promotion, among others. Title V programs braid 
funding with other Federal and State health initiatives, including Maternal, Infant, and 
Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV), Care Connection for Children, Family 
Planning, and other key federal investments. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – December 11, 2025 
 
 
3 
 
Virginia has adopted HRSA’s four pillars for its Title V program, and aligned its seven 
priorities under them: access (improve access through system navigation and 
coordination; utilize comprehensive upstream systems approach to impact outcomes); 
optimal health (promote mental health across MCH populations; strengthen behaviors 
to improve MCH outcomes); impact (advance collaboration, partnership, and 
community engagement to build trust); and capacity (enhance state MCH data 
capacity; maintain a capable MCH workforce). The state is required to work toward 
one mandatory performance National Performance Measure and can create its own 
State Performance Measures as identified in its needs assessment. 
 
Key roles of the Title V office include building out MCH strategic direction; catalyzing 
data collection; and convening, collaborating, and partnering with key groups and 
stakeholders. 
 
Mejia congratulated deSa on a successful inaugural Title V Summit held the week 
prior to the meeting and invited questions. Moore asked whether VDH plans to 
publicize progress toward Title V State Action Plan goals. VDH plans to increase its 
visibility, to include a website revamp and rebrand and pursuit of structured 
opportunities to share key updates and improvements. 
 
V. Implementation Update: Federal Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final 
Rule. Angie Ekdahl, DMAS Senior Policy Advisor for Complex Care, presented an 
update on the CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule, whose 
provisions are aimed at reducing burden for patients and providers. DMAS published a 
new provider bulletin in December 2025 referencing the changes. Additional provider 
and member outreach initiatives are underway. 
  
In addition to the Final Rule’s Interoperability-related requirements (including 
development of multiple Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs), it shortens 
existing timeframes for Prior Authorization (PA) requests from 14 days to seven 
(standard requests) and 72 hours for expedited requests. DMAS and its contracted 
MCOs will also be required to publicly report annual metrics on PA requests and 
timelines. 
 
Mejia thanked Ekdahl and applauded DMAS’s transparency in reporting data via its 
website dashboards, while noting a new dashboard addressing churn. 
 
VI. Virginia’s Maternal and Child Health 1115 Demonstration (FAMIS MOMS, FAMIS 
Select, and Postpartum Extension) Post-Award Forum. Emily Roller, Senior 
Management Analyst in the Policy Division, gave an overview of enrollment in FAMIS 
MOMS and FAMIS Select, and provided an update on Virginia’s 12-Month Postpartum 
Extension, as part of an annual required Public Forum for this 1115 Demonstration 
Waiver. Public comment was invited but none was made.  
 
VII. Committee Discussion: “Who is CHIPAC” Document: The CHIPAC Executive 
Subcommittee oversaw creation of this document to introduce CHIPAC’s charge and 
membership to the new Governor and Administration, to be shared by the Chair 


--- Page 4 ---
CHIPAC Quarterly Meeting Minutes – December 11, 2025 
 
 
4 
 
shortly after the inauguration. The Committee did not provide suggestions for 
comments or changes. 
 
VIII. Agenda for March 5, 2026 CHIPAC meeting (in person at DMAS): Moore inquired 
whether the Virginia Health Care Foundation’s annual Profile of Virginia’s Uninsured 
might be available in time for a March presentation. Joanna Fowler relayed that the 
report has been delayed due to the federal government shutdown and won’t be ready 
in time for the March meeting, but could be a June topic.  
 
Mejia offered that updates from the General Assembly session and/or initiatives 
introduced by the new administration could serve as topics for March. Fowler 
suggested an update on DMAS planning efforts for the H.R. 1 requirements for 
Medicaid Expansion members (work/community engagement and 6-month renewals, 
in particular). 
 
IX. Public Comment: Mejia opened the floor for public comment at 2:52pm. No public 
comments were made. The meeting adjourned at 2:53pm.
