STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40248\Agenda_DMAS_40248_v3.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
1 
BOARD OF MEDICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES 
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 
10:00 AM to 12:00 PM 
Department of Medical Assistance Services 
600 East Broad Street 
Richmond, VA 23219 
1st floor Conference Rooms A&B 
To Join Meeting Remotely:  
Join the meeting now 
Closed Captioning Link 
https://www.streamtext.net/player?event=HamiltonRelayRCC-0930-VA4394 
AGENDA 
# 
Item 
Presenter  
 
1 
Call to Order 
Jason Brewster, Chair 
10:00am 
2 
Roll Call 
Brooke Barlow, Board Secretary 
10:00am –
10:05am 
3 
Approval of 3/11/2025 Minutes 
Jason Brewster, Chair 
10:05am - 
10:10am 
4 
Discussion on Remote Participation 
and All-Virtual Meetings 
Board Members 
10:10am-
10:30am 
5 
Director’s Report  
Cheryl Roberts, Director 
10:30am-
11:10am 
6 
FAS 
Terry Leahy, Project Management Office 
Division Director 
11:10am-
11:20am 
7 
Complex Care Updates 
• Behavioral Health Re-design 
• Interoperability and Prior 
Authorization Final Rule 
• Nursing Facility Updates 
 
Lisa Jobe-Shields, BH Division Director 
Angie Vardell, Senior Program Advisor 
Courtney Richter  
Rich Rosendahl, Chief Analytics Officer 
11:20am- 
11:40am 
8 
New Business/Old Business 
 
11:40am-
11:45am 
9 
Public Comment 
 
11:45am-
11:50pm 
10 
Adjourn/Lunch 
 
12:00pm 
Next Meeting Date:    December 9, 2025 
Proposed 2026 Meeting Dates:   March 10, 2026; June 9, 2026; September 8, 2026; December 8, 2026 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
1 
 
DRAFT MINUTES 
 
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 
10:00 AM 
 
A quorum of the Board of Medical Assistance Services attended the meeting at the Department 
of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) offices at 600 East Broad Street, Richmond. A web-ex 
option was also available for members of the Board and the public to attend virtually. 
 
Present: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
  
Present Virtually: Ashish Kachru, Dr. Jeffrey Rich 
 
DMAS Attendees: Cheryl Roberts-DMAS Director, Jeff Lunardi - Chief Deputy, Adrienne 
Fegans -Deputy for Programs, Sarah Hatton – Deputy for Administration, Chris Gordon-
Deputy for Finance, Ivory Banks – Chief of Staff, Rich Rosendahl- Deputy for Health 
Economics and Economic Policy, Truman Horwitz, Director of Budget,  Emily McClellan, 
Morgan Greer, Board counsel and Brooke Barlow, Board Secretary. 
 
Other In-Person Attendees: Scott Johnson, Alan Fowler, Beth Frank, Dan Plain, Latimat 
Laatey, Divya Balaji, Ethan Johnson, Emily Roller, Jason Rachel. 
 
Virtual Attendees:  John Kissel-Deputy for Technology & Innovation , Charlotte Arbogast, 
Jesse Bea, Dan Blitz, Cindi Jones, Dominique McKenzie, Karen Dunaway, Gaynor Ferrell, 
Karla Hrobowski, Terry Hurley, Karen Cameron, Karen Kimsey, Katie Boyle, Emily Lafon, 
Nicole Lawter, Meredith Lee, LeVar Bowers, Roshni Manjunatha, Maureen Hollowell, 
Fatima McCasland, Michael Cook, Mike Tweedy, Sevda Nixon, Patrick Finnerty, Cat 
Pelletier, William Phipps, Rima Forrest, Karin Roth, Sarah Craddock, Aylin Shamp, Steve 
Ford, Katrina Stokes, Vanessa Lane, Justin Zakia. 
 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
Jason Brewster, Co-Chair, called to open the regular meeting of the Board of Medical Assistance 
Services at 10:02 am on March 111, 2025, at 600 East Broad Street, Conference Rooms A & B, 
Richmond, Virginia 23219.     
 
 
2. Introduction of New Board Members 
 
Cheryl Roberts, Director, welcomed new member Dr. Jeffrey Rich to the Board.  Dr. Rich was 
present virtually and introduced himself to the Board. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
2 
3. Election of  Officers 
 
Morgan Greer, Board Counsel, called for the Board to nominate a Chair.   
 
Jason Brewster moved to nominate himself as Chair. 
Motion 8-0 
Voting for: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
Voting Against: None 
 
Morgan Greer, Board Counsel, called for the Board to nominate a Co-Chair.   
 
Basim Khan moved to nominate himself as Co-Chair. 
Motion 8-0  
Voting For: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
Voting Against: None 
 
Morgan Greer, Board Counsel, called for the Board to nominate a Secretary. 
Jason Brewster nominated Brooke Barlow as Board Secretary.  
Motion 8-0  
Voting For: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
Voting Against: None 
 
 
4. Approval of Minutes 
 
The minutes from the December 10, 2024, meeting were introduced and approved. 
 
Moved by Bernie Boone; seconded by Jennifer Clarke to Approve Motion Passed: 8 - 0 
Voting For: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
Voting Against: None 
 
5. Director's Report 
 
Director Roberts presented to the Board an overview of Medicaid program updates which included 
updates on Dental (Cardinal Care Smiles), Behavioral Health (Governor’s Right Help, Right Now), 
Department of Justice Settlement update, Maternal and Child Health updates and Program Integrity 
update. 
 
Director Roberts also notified the Board of upcoming meetings at DMAS and encouraged all Board 
members to attend the meetings. 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
3 
6. Virginia General Assembly Update 
 
Chief Deputy Jeff Lunardi provided the Board with an overview of DMAS Legislative Role, 2025 
GA Statistics and a recap of the 2025 Legislation and Budget Amendments.   
 
 
7. Budget Update 
 
Truman Horwitz, Budget Division Director presented Budget updates.  A summary was provided 
that spending is on track to that Forecast and DMAS has several dates to anticipate, March 14 and 
May 30th.  
 
 
 
8. Regulations 
 
The Board was provided with updated Regulatory activity.   
 
9. Adjournment 
 
Moved by Vienne Murray; seconded by Jennifer Clarke to Adjourn 11:13 am. 
 
Motion: 8 - 0 
Voting For: Dr. Basim Khan, Elwood Boone, III, Dr. Vienne Murray, Jennifer Clarke, Jason 
Brewster, Margaret Roomsburg, Paul Hogan, Joye Moore 
Voting Against: None 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 5 ---
Board of Medical Assistance Services 
Director’s Update   
Cheryl J. Roberts, J.D., DMAS Director
September 30, 2025 


--- Page 6 ---
Who do we cover? 
2


--- Page 7 ---
How We Care for Virginians
3
Cardinal Care 
Managed Care 
(CCMC) is DMAS’s 
program name for  
the  managed care 
delivery system. 


--- Page 8 ---
4


--- Page 9 ---
Celebrating 60 Years of Medicaid!!!
5


--- Page 10 ---
Objectives and Key Results – October 2025
6


--- Page 11 ---
7
Maternity care deserts are typically defined as counties 
where there are no hospitals or birth centers offering 
obstetric care and no obstetric providers.
DMAS/MCO Maternal workgroup as part of Governor’s 
Executive Directive 11.
HHR Maternal Health Data Task Force met on August 22 
and September 24, 2025
DMAS established Medicaid Maternity Council and MCO 
task force 
DMAS and VDH were selected to participate in a 
technical assistance opportunity from the National 
Association of State Health Policymakers (NASHP) to 
address the issue of maternity care deserts in Virginia 
Approved Budget Item 292.UU  Maternal Mobile Clinics 
Pilot Program 
Maternity Care Deserts


--- Page 12 ---
Cardinal Care


--- Page 13 ---
WE ARE LIVE! 
9


--- Page 14 ---
Ensure Medicaid members have appropriate access to quality health 
care through the contracted managed care plans
1
0
At the heart of Virginia’s 
Medicaid system, 
Cardinal Care Managed 
Care empowers a 
member-first approach –
ensuring care is not only 
accessible, but 
personalized and 
connected.
Focus on expanding behavioral health services  and improving 
access as part of the Right Help, Right Now initiative
2
1
Improve maternal and child health outcomes through targeted 
initiatives across Commonwealth
Provide children and youth in foster care with a dedicated 
health plan
4
Enhance access to appropriate services, supports and settings for 
members receiving  Long Term Services and supports (LTSS)
5
Increase MCO reporting , compliance and oversight  
7
Drive innovation and operational excellence with a focus on 
data analytics
6
3
Top Goals of Cardinal Care Managed Care program 


--- Page 15 ---
Virginia launched Cardinal Care Managed Care on July 1, 2025, 
advancing its Medicaid program.
1
1
•
Transitioned 1.7 million members into the program 
•
CCMC provided new plan initiatives and enhanced services 
•
Humana Healthy Horizons of Virginia is CCMC’s new MCO. 
•
Molina members were automatically transitioned to Humana 
Healthy Horizons of Virginia on July 1, 2025 
•
Children and Youth in foster care are served in a single 
statewide Foster Care Specialty Plan (FCSP) through Anthem 
HealthKeepers Plus
•
Members may change their health plan for any reason until 
September 30,2025. Then begins regional open enrollment 


--- Page 16 ---
New CCMC Implementation – Provider and Member Supports
12


--- Page 17 ---
1
3
Cardinal Care Managed Care 
serves as the platform for a 
more person-centered, 
efficient, and accountable 
Medicaid delivery system in 
Virginia
Cardinal Care Managed Care


--- Page 18 ---
Federal Policy Actions
H.R.1 – One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA)


--- Page 19 ---
H.R.1 – One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA)
H.R. 1, the "One Big Beautiful Bill 
Act (OBBBA)", became law on July 4, 
2025.
CMS implementation guidance will 
be forthcoming; Virginia-specific 
impacts will depend on guidance 
and directives.
Implementation of Medicaid 
provisions will be a collaboration 
with input from the Governor’s 
Office, the General Assembly, and 
federal partners.
Multiple  collaborations will be 
needed to meet HR1 requirements. 
15


--- Page 20 ---
H.R.1 – OBBBA Timeline
16
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 21 ---
Subpart A Reducing Fraud and Improving Enrollment Process
Criteria for Expansion Only, and All Populations
17
Frequency of Expansion Eligibility Redeterminations (Section 71107)
Effective January 1, 2027
Requires a redetermination for Expansion enrolled individuals to occur every 
six months; currently redeterminations occur on an annual basis
Governor’s Executive Directive directs Secretary of HHR to work with 
stakeholders and leverage best practices in implementation
Concurrent Enrollment & Deceased Individuals (Section 71104, 71105)
Effective January 1, 2027/January 1, 2028
Requires states to obtain enrollee address information using reliable data 
sources
Requires states to review the Death Master File quarterly to identify 
deceased individuals
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 22 ---
Subpart A Reducing Fraud and Improving Enrollment Process
All Populations
Immigrant Eligibility and Federal Match (Section 71109-77110)
Effective October 1, 2026
Narrows the definition of qualified alien from current law
Payments for services for an emergency medical condition furnished to an individual eligible for Expansion 
except for their citizenship status shall be limited to 50% federal match; currently 90%
Operational impacts to systems and general fund impact due to match reduction
Payment Reduction Related to Certain Erroneous Excess Payments Under Medicaid (Section 71109-77110)
Effective October 1, 2029
Pending CMS guidance, intent is to allow recoupment of erroneous payments beyond current Payment Error 
Rate Measure (PERM)
Errors include payments made on behalf of ineligible individuals and when there is insufficient 
documentation to support eligibility
The 3% error rate threshold applies to any audits conducted by the federal Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (HHS) and, at the Secretary’s option, audits conducted by the state
18
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 23 ---
Subpart B Preventing Wasteful Spending and Subpart C Stopping 
Abusive Financing Practices
Retroactive Coverage (Section 71120)
Effective January 1, 2027
Limits retroactive coverage to one month for Expansion and two months for all other individuals; 
current limits are three months for all populations except for CHIP/FAMIS
Provider Taxes (Section 71115)
Begins July 1, 2027
No impact to Medicaid expansion funding levels in Virginia
Virginia will retain three existing provider taxes
Coverage assessment     (funds state share of Medicaid expansion)
Rate assessment     (funds hospital supplemental payments)
Intermediate Care Facility assessment     (funds ICF supplemental payments)
Moratorium on submission of new provider taxes effective July, 2025
Gradual decline in allowable provider assessments starting July 1, 2027
(from current 6% down to 3.5%)
State Directed Payments (Section 71116)
Effective January 1, 2028
Supplemental payments above Medicare will be lowered to 100% of Medicare
19
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 24 ---
Subpart D Increasing Personal Accountability
Expansion Only 
Community Engagement and Work  Requirements 
(Section 71119)
Effective December 31, 2026
Requires individuals applying for or enrolled in Expansion to participate in a 
qualifying activity at least 80 hours per month to be eligible
Exempts major groups such as parents and individuals with disabilities
Qualifying activities: work, community service, education, or any combination of 
the above
States must verify compliance at application for Medicaid and every six months 
thereafter
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)
20


--- Page 25 ---
Subpart D Increasing Personal Accountability
Expansion Only 
CMS is beginning to work on getting states the guidance that they need
Developing guidance
Convening a workgroup of Medicaid directors and staff on implementation (Virginia 
is engaged)
Working with IT vendors on modules that states can use for implementation
States have options to consider when planning implementation
Statute provides flexibility for what additional circumstances will temporarily 
exempt members from the requirements
States will make policy decisions, assess verification processes, and plan outreach
CMS may entertain implementation delays for good cause (up to one year)
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)
21


--- Page 26 ---
Subpart D Increasing Personal Accountability (Expansion Only) 
and Subchapter E Expanding Access to Care
Cost Sharing
Effective October 1, 2028
Requires cost sharing greater than zero for Expansion members with incomes above 100% 
of the Federal Poverty Level up to $35 per service
Exceptions for: primary care, substance use disorder and mental health, services provided 
by FQHCs, rural and behavioral health clinics
Adjustments to Home or Community Based Services (Section 71121)
Effective July 1, 2028
Creates a new standalone 1915(c) waiver that does not require participants to be subject 
to a determination that, but for the provision of home and community-based services 
(HCBS), those individuals would require nursing facility or ICF/IDD level of care
Payments may not be made under the waiver to third parties for benefits such as health 
insurance, skills training, and other benefits customary for employees
22
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 27 ---
H.R. 1 - Rural Health Transformation Program 
Rural Health Transformation Program 
Effective July 4, 2025, Between FY2026 and FY2030, the program will distribute $50 
billion, with Virginia eligible for up to $500 million in direct allocations and access to 
additional competitive grants.
Governor Glenn Youngkin issued Executive Directive 12, requiring Virginia health 
agencies and partners to organize a coordinated effort to prepare for these 
investments and ensure they are aligned with community priorities while maximizing 
long-term impact for rural families and providers.
Virginia’s one-time application detailing rural transformation plan to be approved or 
denied by CMS by December 31, 2025, makes the state eligible for all funding years.
23
Source: H.R.1 (One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025, https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/1/text)


--- Page 28 ---
Rural Health Transformation Program (continued)
24


--- Page 29 ---
The Secretary of Health and Human Resources facilitated rapid, broad, stakeholder outreach efforts that 
include:
• 12 On-site listening sessions in rural areas across Virginia.  
• Outreach to members of the General Assembly on the development of the Rural Health 
Transformation Plan. 
• A central email address has been established take questions and accept additional input.
RuralTransformation@governor.virginia.gov
25


--- Page 30 ---
26
Thank You!


--- Page 31 ---
Update on FAS
Key Near Term Milestones – Procurement 
Design, Development, and Implementation (DDI)
• 90:10 FFP has been used throughout the project’s procurement 
and pre-initiation phases.  90:10 funding will continue until go-live 
stabilization is achieved. 
• PMO has already begun its pre-kickoff processes, including making 
the required compliance entries in VITA’s Commonwealth 
Technology Portfolio, and authoring the Project Charter.  A 
notional implementation schedule is available and being reviewed.  
Scope, schedule, cost, risk, and quality management plans are 
being readied.  A communications plan is also being drafted, which 
incorporates internal and external stakeholder communications, 
including modality, frequency, and stakeholder influence.
• The Interagency Oversight Committee (IAOC) will be enacted for 
this project per the Code of Virginia and Commonwealth Project 
Management Standard.  The IAOC includes all business and 
functional stakeholders of the project, including stakeholders in 
other agencies, who provide an additional layer of oversight to the 
project.  In addition, CMS and VITA require Independent 
Verification & Validation (IV&V) support for the project through a 
third-party (in procurement at 90:10).
• The new FAS will need to be certified by CMS, to occur 6 months 
after go-live.
•
Negotiations: Over the course of the last several months, DMAS has 
engaged in negotiations with multiple Suppliers. The Notice of Intent 
to Award (NOIA) is forthcoming; upon release, information in the 
procurement file becomes available to participating Suppliers. The 
procurement file will become available to the public after the Notice 
of Award (NOA) is posted. 
•
High Risk Review: During the negotiation phase, and after DMAS has 
made its selection for award, the final Contract will be sent to OAG 
and VITA in parallel for the required high-risk review. Statutorily, the 
timeline to complete the review is 30-business days.  Any adopted 
changes to the contract terms from the reviewers must be accepted 
by both DMAS and the selected Supplier prior to moving forward. 
•
CMS Review: Once the OAG/VITA review is complete and any 
changes are agreed to by all parties, the final version is sent to CMS 
for their official review.  This is a 60-calendar day review timeline.
•
Project Kickoff: Upon CMS approval, award posting/notification 
requirements, and contract signatures by authorized approvers, 
PMO will begin project kickoff ceremonies and begin executing the 
project management plan.  Estimated to occur by mid-January 2026..
PMO estimates a 2.5-year project duration, 
putting go-live at approximately July 2028.
Questions? Contact the PMO Director at Terrence.Leahy@dmas.virginia.gov.
Project Sponsors include Chris Gordon, Adrienne 
Fegans, and John Kissel.  
Today
October/November
OAG/VITA high-risk review
November/December
CMS review
January
Project Kickoff
September
December/January
CMS Review and 
Posting Requirements Complete
January
   2026
DDI PHASE
October
November
December


--- Page 32 ---
1
Redesign of Medicaid 
Behavioral Health 
Rehabilitative Services
BMAS September 30, 2025


--- Page 33 ---
2
Project Overview
DMAS, in coordination with DBHDS, DHP and DMAS health plans, is employing an integrated and comprehensive 
approach to address rate, service, and workforce/provider roles for Medicaid over the next two years.
The project seeks to redesign DMAS’ youth and adult legacy services: Intensive In-home Services (IIHS), 
Therapeutic Day Treatment (TDT), Mental Health Skill Building (MHSS), Psychosocial Rehabilitation (PSR), and 
Mental Health Case Management (MHCM).
The budget language authorizes DMAS to move forward with budget neutral changes to replace the legacy 
services with evidence-based, trauma-informed services. 
XX. 1. Effective July 1, 2024, the Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS) shall have the authority to modify Medicaid behavioral health services such that: (1) legacy services that predate the current service delivery system, including 
Mental Health Skill Building, Psychosocial Rehabilitation, Intensive In Home Services, and Therapeutic Day Treatment are phased out; (2) legacy youth services are replaced with the implementation of tiered community based supports for youth and 
families with and at-risk for behavioral health disorders appropriate for delivery in homes and schools, (3) legacy services for adults are replaced with a comprehensive array of psychiatric rehabilitative services for adults with Serious Mental Illness 
(SMI), including community-based and center-based services such as independent living and resiliency supports, community support teams, and psychosocial rehabilitation services, (4) legacy Targeted Case Management- SMI and Targeted Case 
Management- Serious Emotional Disturbance (SED) are replaced with Tiered Case Management Services. All new and modified services shall be evidence based and trauma informed. To facilitate this transition, ​DMAS shall have the authority to 
implement programmatic changes to service definitions, prior authorization and utilization review criteria, provider qualifications, and reimbursement rates for the legacy and redesigned services identified in this paragraph. DMAS shall only 
proceed with the provisions of this paragraph if the authorized Medicaid behavioral health modifications and programmatic changes can be implemented in a budget neutral manner within appropriation provided in this Act for the identified legacy 
services. Moreover, any new or modified services shall be designed such that out-year costs are in line with the current legacy service spending projections. No new Medicaid behavioral health services or rates shall be implemented until 
corresponding legacy services have ended. Implementation of the redesigned services authorized in this paragraph shall be completed no later than June 30, 2026. ​
2


--- Page 34 ---
3
Medicaid Behavioral Health Services Redesign Priorities
Strengthen the 
evidence-based, 
trauma-informed 
service continuum for 
youth and adults
Promote earlier 
intervention and 
increase access through 
tiered service design
Design services for 
Virginia’s managed care 
service delivery system 
and multipayer system
Integrate workforce 
priorities and workforce 
supports into service 
design and 
implementation
Four 
Dimensions 
of Recovery 
(SAMHSA)
Community
Purpose
Health
Home
Evidence Base Highlights
•
Mental health disorders are complex and include genetic, environmental, biological, and social 
factors
•
Treatments include medication, therapy, and support services
•
Duration of untreated mental illness is primary predictor of long-term functional impairment; 
recovery is a process
•
Early, coordinated intervention during sensitive periods improves long-term outcomes
•
Mental health treatment system is paradoxical if not constrained: over-treatment (mild) and 
under-recognition (severe)
•
Financial incentives are often misaligned for both providers and payers 
3


--- Page 35 ---
4
Medicaid Behavioral Health Redesign Timeline
July 2024-June 2026
Year 1
July 2024-June 2025
Service research, stakeholder input, contractor 
support to develop service requirements
Develop service definitions and requirements
Develop FFS rates for each proposed new service
Estimate utilization, cost and budget impact for 
redesigned services
Year 2
July 2025-June 2026
Operationalize new services through licensure, 
regulatory, and policy manual changes
Prepare providers to transition to new services
Ensure MCO readiness to implement new services
New Services Go Live
Potential phased in approach of service 
implementation


--- Page 36 ---
5
Project Updates
June, 2025
Fiscal impact 
study completed
Implementation 
plan developed
July, 2025
Phase 2 
(Implementation) 
Launch!
Rates Posted
August, 2025
Provider Readiness Survey 
Completed
MAP Training Application
DMAS/DBHDS Regs and 
Policy Development
FFS/MCO Implementation 
Launch
September 2025
Informal public 
comment begins
Provider office 
hours begins
Provider Letter of 
Intent Developed
October 2025
Informal Public 
Comment 
continues
Provider Letter of 
Intent Due to 
DBHDS
We are here!
5


--- Page 37 ---
6
Cross Walk of Current Community Rehabilitative Mental Health 
Services (CMHRS) and New Service Array
Current Services
New Service Replacement
Mental Health Skill Building (H0046)
Psychosocial Rehabilitation (H2017)
Community Psychiatric Support and Treatment (Adult) - Community
Coordinated Specialty Care (CSC)
Mental Health Clubhouse Services (Clubhouse International Model)
Intensive In-Home Services (H2012)
Community Psychiatric Support and Treatment (Youth) - Community
Therapeutic Day Treatment (H2016)
Community Psychiatric Support and Treatment (Youth) - School Setting
Mental Health Case Management 
(H0032)
Remaining Mental Health Case Management with policy changes
6


--- Page 38 ---
7
Rates for BH Redesign July 2026 Implementation
Setting and Professional - Individual
Rate Type
Rate
CPST — Licensed Mental Health Professional (LMHP), Community
Per 15 Minutes
$33.24 
CPST — LMHP, School Setting
Per 15 Minutes
$25.81 
CPST — Qualified Mental Health Professional (QMHP), Community
Per 15 Minutes
$25.66 
CPST — QMHP, School Setting
Per 15 Minutes
$19.41 
CPST — Behavioral Health Technician (BHT), Community
Per 15 Minutes
$20.49 
CPST — BHT, School Setting
Per 15 Minutes
$14.69 
7
Setting and Professional – Group; (Adult max of 10); (Youth max of 6)
Rate Type
Rate
CPST — LMHP, Community Youth Group
Per 15 Minutes
$8.31 
CPST — LMHP, School Setting Youth Group
Per 15 Minutes
$6.45 
CPST — LMHP, Community Adult Group
Per 15 Minutes
$5.54 
CPST — QMHP, Community Youth Group
Per 15 Minutes
$6.41 
CPST — QMHP, School Setting Youth Group
Per 15 Minutes
$4.85 
CPST — QMHP, Community Adult Group
Per 15 Minutes
$4.28 


--- Page 39 ---
8
Rates for July, 2026 Implementation- Cont'd.
Service
Rate Type
Rate
Standardized Comprehensive Assessment of Needs and 
Strengths (CANS Lifetime)
Flat Rate
$323.42
Clubhouse International Model of Psychosocial 
Rehabilitation
Per Diem
$72.41
Coordinated Specialty Care for First Episode Psychosis
Monthly Rate
$2,308.00
Coordinated Specialty Care for First Episode Psychosis
Encounter Rate
$381.00
Mental Health Case Management for SMI and SED
Monthly Rate
$374.09
8


--- Page 40 ---
9
Policy and Licensing Updates
• DBHDS Licensing Regulations- Draft of CPST was submitted and reviewed at 
DBHDS Board meeting on Sept 23rd  
• DBHDS Board approval in September, would be public and undergoing executive branch 
review
• DBHDS Board review and posting of Coordinated Specialty Care and Clubhouse in 
December
• DMAS policy manuals- Goal is to post for informal public comment in 
September/October; followed by submission of SPA to CMS; followed by formal 
posting in Spring
• Meeting with a group of community-based providers to hear feedback about 
draft policies.
9


--- Page 41 ---
10
10
10
Policy Review Process
DMAS Draft
DBHDS 
review/DMAS 
integrate 
changes
MCOs and 
limited provider 
review
Informal public 
comment; 
Advisory Panel 
DMAS integrate 
changes
10
SPA submission
DMAS integrate 
CMS changes in 
SPA and manuals
Formal Public 
Comment
Publish 


--- Page 42 ---
11
11
11
FFS/MCO Implementation
• All service codes have been assigned, systems changes are currently 
being drafted
• MCOs are currently providing feedback on drafts, technical 
specifications
• MCOs began conducting review and subsequent outreach to youth 
providers started in September
• IIH and TDT providers cross referenced with survey respondents and claims 
history, by region
• Need to retain all/increase providers in multiple regions
• Contractor System Testing: January-March, with readiness reviews in 
late Spring.
11


--- Page 43 ---
12
12
12
Provider Readiness Survey
• Survey completed by 158 providers by deadline
• 31 CSBs 
• 127 private providers
Services currently provided by 
respondents:
12
Current Service
Number
Intensive In-Home
93
Therapeutic Day Treatment
13
Mental Health Skill Building
127
Psychosocial Rehabilitation
42
New Service
Provider Count
Clubhouse
68
CSC
51
CPST-Adult
142
CPST Youth Community
127
CPST Youth School
69
Number of Providers interested in the new 
services:


--- Page 44 ---
13
13
13
Representativeness
13
Current Service
Members Served 
in 2024
Paid Claims 2024 
(Survey Respondents)
Total Annual 
Spend (All 
Providers)
Intensive In-Home
2928
$27,336,876
$97,874,805
Therapeutic Day Treatment
5463
$10,959,452
$30,809,629 
Mental Health Skill Building
2434
$60,738,892
$194,760,307
Psychosocial Rehabilitation
1794
$16,850,408
$25,308,172
• Providers completing survey represented about 1/3 of current providers (based on number 
served and claims history)
• More than half of PSR provider responded
• Respondents from smaller agencies were less likely to respond
• Example: For intensive in home, 30% of providers serving 20-49 and 50+ members per year 
completed the survey but 17% of providers serving 0-8 and 8-19 members per year 
completed the survey


--- Page 45 ---
14
14
14
Clinical Director and Accreditation Readiness
14
Readiness (Clinical Director)
Provider Count
We already have a clinical director who is fully licensed
129
We have at least one fully licensed staff who is full time. They are not currently in 
the role of "clinical director" but we can easily meet the criteria by 7/1/2025
17
We have no fully licensed staff who are full time and are not prepared to do so.
1
We have no fully licensed staff who are full time currently, but are prepared to 
hire a clinical director in order to become licensed for the service transition 
7/1/2026
12
Grand Total
159
CPST Agencies will be required to have a 
fully licensed, full time LMHP clinical 
director. Which statement describes your 
agency’s readiness?
Eventually, CPST Agencies will be 
required to be accredited by one of the 
following entities: The Joint Commission, 
Council on Accreditation (COA), CARF. Is 
your agency currently accredited?
Accredited?
Provider Count
No
120
Yes
39
Grand Total
159
•
28 CARF 
•
7 TJC
•
6 COA


--- Page 46 ---
15
15
15
Additional Outreach/Engagement
• Recorded information videos by DMAS/DBHDS teams are posted on DMAS Youtube 
Channel
• Working with Clubhouse International on Clubhouse policy draft.
• Working with Praed Foundation on the development of CANS Lifetime Assessment
• DMAS/DOE and are working on strategic communication to school admin and school-
based MH staff about CPST-School and TDT ending.
• DMAS joined an OCS led workgroup (Sept 19th) on redesign to provide support for CSA 
planning/implementation.
• Presenting at:
• VACSB: Oct 1st
• VNPP: Oct 15th
• CSA Conference: Oct 15th
• VACBP: Oct 28th
15


--- Page 47 ---
16
16
16
Interoperability & Prior 
Authorization Final Rule
 
September 30, 2025


--- Page 48 ---
17
17
Major Provisions (Interoperability, Patient Access & Prior Authorization*)
Patient Access 
API
Provider 
Directory API
Payer to Payer 
API/Data 
Exchange
Provider 
Access API
Prior 
Authorization 
API
Prior 
Authorization 
Process 
Improvements 
Today’s Focus
Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule (CMS-0057-F)
*CMS term “Prior Authorization” = DMAS “Service Authorization”


--- Page 49 ---
18
18
Improving Prior Authorization Processes


--- Page 50 ---
19
19
Service Authorization Decision Timeframes- Implementation
Beginning January 1, 2026


--- Page 51 ---
20
20
Service Authorization Annual Metrics
By March 31, 2026, each MCO will need to report its own data on its website, and DMAS will need to report 
total (combined) MCO/FFS info on its website:
• A list of all items and services that require prior authorization (excluding drugs).
• The percentage of standard prior authorization requests that were approved, aggregated for all items and services.
• The percentage of standard prior authorization requests that were denied, aggregated for all items and services.
• The percentage of standard prior authorization requests that were approved after appeal, aggregated for all items 
and services.
• The percentage of prior authorization requests for which the timeframe for review was extended and the request was 
approved, aggregated for all items and services. 
• The percentage of expedited prior authorization requests that were approved, aggregated for all items and services.
• The percentage of expedited prior authorization requests that were denied, aggregated for all items and services. 
• The average and median time that elapsed between the submission of a request and a determination by the payer, 
plan, or issuer for standard prior authorizations, aggregated for all items and services.
• The average and median time that elapsed between the submission of a request and a decision by the payer, plan, or 
issuer, for expedited prior authorizations, aggregated for all items and services.


--- Page 52 ---
21
21
21
Nursing Facility Updates
September 30, 2025


--- Page 53 ---
22
22
22
DMAS Role in Supporting NF Quality
• DMAS framework for ensuring quality
• Quality Assurance
• Provider enrollment/credentialing (DMAS and MCOs)
• Billing/reimbursement standards
• Quality Incentives: Nursing Facility Value-Based Purchasing 
program
• Quality Improvement: Nursing Facility Quality Improvement 
program


--- Page 54 ---
23
23
23Virginia Medicaid Nursing Home Facts
D A T A   S U M M A R Y
Who are the providers?
Who do we serve?
Current State
~50% of NFs with 1- or 2-star rating
There are 290 NFs providing 
services to Medicaid and Medicare 
members across VA. One third of 
NFs are across 10 major cities
90% of the NFs with # certified beds of 50 
or less have a star rating of 4 or 5
~18% NFs with 5 Star rating 
73% of the NFs with a star rating of 1 and 2 
have # certified beds of 100 to 200
~17K Virginia Medicaid members are 
in NFs. 
These members are primarily served in 
~290 NFs across VA. 
Top RUG Case Mix group reported for 
State Medicaid in MDS assessments are 
Reduced physical function, Behavioral and 
Clinically complex. (PB1, BA1, CC1, CC2, CA2)
Top Resource Utilization Group (RUG) 
for members from claims are mostly 
related to Rehab and Reduced 
Physical function (RAC, RAD, RAB, PC1, RAA)
Average Number of Residents per Day in VA 
is 96.6 compared to national average of 81.6 
~32% of NFs with 3-star & 4-star rating
70% NFs with a star rating of 3 and 4 have
 # certified beds of  50 to 150
78% Percentage of short stay residents who made 
improvements in function & 22% were re-hospitalized after 
a nursing home admission


--- Page 55 ---
24
24
Nursing Facility Quality Improvement Program (NFQIP)
2022 budget item 308 Q.1.4: DMAS to create and administer a Nursing Facility Quality 
Improvement Program with Civil Money Penalty (CMP) reinvestment funds. 
DMAS partnering with VCU Gerontology to provide trainings, conferences, technical assistance, 
and other supports to NFs. 
​The first launched August 13, 2025, as a live workshop open to all NFs in the Commonwealth.
DMAS and VCU Outreach: targeted email blasts, social media, and networks (i.e. Long-Term Care 
Clinicians Network and the NF Associations) 
https://www.dmas.virginia.gov/for-providers/benefits-services-for-providers/long-term-care/programs-and-initiatives/nursing-facility-quality-improvement-program-nfqip/ 
Evaluating: NF participation, change in participant knowledge, competence, & confidence


--- Page 56 ---
25
25
25
Staff Training on Value Based Purchasing Quality Metrics
• In development. Will support NF attainment and improvement in Virginia VBP PMs. 
• Anticipated start October 2025
Agreement with VCU for at least 2 more NFQIP project applications
• Anticipated start dates: Jan 2026 and June 2026  
Deepening Your Person-Centered, Dementia Care Practice: A 
Learning and Relearning Journey
• 12 Virtual workshops over 3 years. Live  “Huddle Up” session one month after each workshop. 
Person-Centered Trauma-Informed Care Training Series
• 15 self-paced training courses bundled into 3 badge levels.
NFQIP Training Topics
Current 
Upcoming


--- Page 57 ---
26
26
26
Civil Money Penalty Reinvestment Program (CMPRP)
$7.7 Million 
reinvested
33 Unique 
Projects
Over 75% of 
NFs have 
participated
Total CMPRP 
Impact FY19 – 
FY25
• Reinvests penalties assessed on 
noncompliant NFs back into 
facilities 
• Projects that directly improve the 
quality of life and care of residents
• DMAS administers the program, 
and CMS makes the final funding 
determination
• FY25- 16 Projects. 43% NFs in 
Virginia participated (n=124)


--- Page 58 ---
27
27
27
How Nursing Facility Value-Based Payments Work – Program 
Performance Measures
27
Domain
Measure
Description
Weight
Staffing
Minimum RN Staffing
Meet 8 Hours/Day of RN care 
20%
Composite Nurse 
Staffing
Registered Nurse + Licensed Practical Nurse + Certified 
Nurse Assistant staffing time, case mix adjusted
20%
Quality 
(avoidance of 
events)
Hospitalizations
Number of hospitalizations per 1,000 long-stay 
resident days
15%
Emergency Department 
(ED) Visits
Number of outpatient ED visits per 1,000 long-stay 
resident days.
15%
Pressure Ulcers
Percentage of high-risk long-stay residents with 
pressure ulcers
15%
Urinary Tract Infections
Percentage of long-stay residents with a urinary tract 
infection within the past 30 days
15%


--- Page 59 ---
28
28
28
Where We’re Going
• Modify how DMAS makes attainment payments to nursing facilities that 
decline in performance (SFY26)
• Modify program measures to recognize program-wide improvements in 
performance and introduce new areas requiring improvement (SFY27)
• Use improved data from licensure and certification oversight to strengthen 
program eligibility requirements (SFY27 and beyond)


--- Page 60 ---
29
29
29
Other NF Programs and Initiatives 
Currently Underway
More frequent exchange of MDS data 
from VDH including Section Q data.
PDPM reimbursement methodology "Go 
live" 10/1/2025
Portal Entry, HRA & DME monitoring plan 
being carried out with the MCOs


--- Page 61 ---


--- Page 62 ---


--- Page 63 ---
Page 1 of 12 
 
 Regulatory Activity Summary — September 30, 2025 
(* Indicates Recent Activity) 
 
 
2025 General Assembly  
 
*(01) Provider Appeals AIMS Filing:  This regulatory action amends existing regulations to 
streamline the provider appeal process in accordance with Item 292 QQ of the 2025 Appropriations 
Act. The amendments require providers to file appeal notices and other appeals-related documents 
through the Appeals Information Management System (AIMS), an online appeals portal. 
Following internal review, the reg project was submitted to the OAG for review on 8/28/25.  
 
*(02) Reentry Targeted Case Management:  In accordance with Item 288.GGGG.2 of the 2025 
Appropriations Act, this SPA provides coverage of targeted case management, in the 30 days pre-
release and immediately post-release to eligible incarcerated youth and young adults to comply 
with section 5121 of the federal Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2023. Following the internal 
and external reviews, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/8/25. 
 
*(03) 2025 Non-Institutional Provider Reimbursement Changes:  The state plan is being 
amended in order to comply with the 2025 Appropriations Act. Specifically:  
 
• 
Item 288.FFFFF.2: The state plan is being revised to update the rates for Private Duty and Skilled 
Nursing under the Early Periodic Screening, and Diagnosis Treatment (EPSDT) benefit by three 
percent. (A corresponding rate increase will be provided for these services and for Group Homes, 
Sponsored Residential, Supported Living, Independent Living Supports, In-home Supports, 
Community Engagement, Community Coaching, Therapeutic Consultation, Group Day Support, 
Group Supported Employment, Workplace Assistance, Community Guide, and Benefits Planning 
provided under home and community- based waivers. These increases are not included in the state plan 
amendment but via waiver  documentation.) 
 
• 
Item 288.GGGGG.2: The state plan is being revised to increase the rates for agency- and consumer-
directed personal care under the Early Periodic Screening, and Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT) 
benefit by two percent.  (A corresponding rate increase of two percent will be provided for these 
services and for companion and respite services provided under home and community-based waivers, 
however, the increase is not included in a state plan amendment but via waiver documentation.)  
 
• 
Item 288.MMMMM: The state plan is being revised to include a provision for payment of medical 
assistance for FDA approved long-acting injectable or extended-release medications administered for 
a serious mental illness or substance use disorder in any hospital emergency department. This payment 
shall be unbundled from the hospital rate. 
 
• 
Item 288.PPPPP: The state plan is being revised to ensure the reimbursement for a service provided 
by a licensed certified midwife or licensed midwife shall be in the same amount as the Medicaid 
reimbursement paid a licensed physician or certified nurse midwife, whichever is higher, for 
performing such service in the area served. 
 
• 
Item 288.UUUUU: The state plan is being revised to increase the rates for Office Based Addiction 
Treatment, Opioid Treatment Services, Partial Hospitalization Services, and Intensive Outpatient 
Services by 6.5 percent.   
 
• 
Item 288.WWWWW: The state plan is being revised to provide supplemental payments for dentists 
employed by or contracted with Virginia Commonwealth University's School of Dentistry. The total 


--- Page 64 ---
Page 2 of 12 
 
supplemental payment shall be based on the average commercial rate as approved by the federal 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) and all other Medicaid payments subject to such limit 
made to such dentists. DMAS shall enter into a transfer agreement with Virginia Commonwealth 
University for such supplemental payments, in which the University shall provide the non-federal 
share in order to match federal Medicaid funds for the supplemental payments. 
 
• 
Item 3-5.15: the state plan is being revised to broaden the types of hospitals that qualify for 
supplemental payments for outpatient services to Medicaid patients.  Specifically, all private hospitals 
will include critical access hospitals.  (The provider rate assessment is used to fund the state general 
fund of the hospital supplemental payments and the change in how private hospitals is defined will 
increase the number of hospitals participating in the assessment.)   
 
Following the internal and external reviews, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/8/25. 
 
*(04) 2025 Institutional Provider Reimbursement Changes: The state plan is being amended 
in order to comply with the 2025 Appropriations Act. Specifically:  
 
• 
Item 288.MMMMM: The state plan is being revised to include a provision for payment of medical 
assistance for FDA approved long-acting injectable or extended-release medications administered for a 
serious mental illness or substance use disorder in any hospital inpatient setting. This payment shall be 
unbundled from the hospital rate. 
 
• 
Item 288.RRRRR: The state plan is being revised to make supplemental payments through an adjustment 
to the formula for indirect medical education (IME) reimbursement, using managed care discharge days, 
not to exceed $30,000,000 total computable for teaching hospitals affiliated with Virginia Tech Carilion 
School of Medicine. The public entity shall transfer the non-federal share of the authorized supplemental 
payments. The funds to be transferred must comply with 42 CFR 433.51 and 433.54. Such funds may 
not be paid from any private agreements with Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine that are in 
excess of fair market value or that alleviate pre-existing financial burdens of the school. The Virginia 
Tech Carilion School of Medicine is authorized to use general fund dollars to accomplish this transfer. 
The Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine would enter into an Interagency Agreement with the 
department for this purpose and must attest to compliance with applicable CMS criteria. 
  
• 
Item 3-5.15: The state plan is being revised to broaden the types of hospitals that qualify for supplemental 
payments for inpatient services to Medicaid patients.  Specifically, all private hospitals will include 
critical access hospitals.  (The provider rate assessment is used to fund the state general fund of the 
hospital supplemental payments and the change in how private hospitals is defined will increase the 
number of hospitals participating in the assessment.)   
 
Following the internal and external reviews, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/12/25. 
 
*(05) 2025 Third Party Liability:  The purpose of this state plan amendment is twofold:  
 
 
• Add language that is needed to respond to a CMS State Medicaid Director letter (#23-
002) requiring Medicaid agencies to amend their state plan to provide assurance that the 
state has rules in place that bar liable third-party payers from refusing payment for an 
item or service solely on the basis that such item or service did not receive prior 
authorization under the third-party payer’s rules.   
 
• Provide clarity relating to lien amounts arising from the Medicaid program and asserted 
against personal injury claims proceeds. 
 


--- Page 65 ---
Page 3 of 12 
 
In 2023, DMAS submitted a third party liability SPA to CMS to incorporate the above changes. 
However, CMS asked DMAS to withdraw the SPA, because the agency did not have a law in place 
that barred liable third-party payers from refusing payment for an item or service on the basis that 
such item or service did not receive prior authorization under the third-party payer’s rules. Item 
288.KKKKK of the 2025 Appropriations Act provides such authority; therefore, DMAS can now 
resubmit the SPA to CMS. Following internal review, the project was approved by DPB on 
7/21/25; approved by HHR on 7/23/25; and submitted to CMS on 8/12/25. 
 
*(06) Applicability of the OMB Outpatient All-Inclusive Rate:  This state plan amendment will 
comply with the requirements of the 2025 Virginia Appropriations Act, Item 288.TTTTT, which 
requires DMAS to seek approval from CMS to amend the State Plan to reflect that services 
provided by IHS or tribal clinics or tribal FQHCs that are not eligible for the federal medical 
assistance percentage of 100 percent (services provided to individuals who are not American 
Indians or Alaska Natives) shall be reimbursed at standard Medicaid rates (the rates otherwise paid 
to non-tribal facilities for the same services). Following the internal and external reviews, the SPA 
was submitted to CMS on 7/7/25. 
 
*(07) Nursing Facility Reimbursement Methodology: In accordance with the 2025 
Appropriations Act, Item 288.IIIII, this SPA modifies the nursing facility reimbursement 
methodology to the Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) instead of Resource Utilization 
Groups (RUG). This change shall be implemented in a budget neutral manner. RUGs was 
developed and used by CMS to classify nursing facility residents into payment groups based on 
their resource utilization.  RUGs expired on September 30, 2023.  Between October 1, 2023, and 
September 30, 2025, CMS allowed state Medicaid agencies to use the Optional State Assessment 
to extend the use of RUGs IV.  CMS will no longer support Medicare RUGs systems after October 
1, 2025. PDPM will replace RUGs for classifying Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) patients in a 
covered Medicare Part A stay. This shift aims to modernize payment systems and align 
reimbursement more closely with resident care needs. The project is currently circulating for 
internal review. 
 
*(08) Repeal of Nursing Facility-Specific Drug Utilization Review and Updates to Nursing 
Facility Survey and Certification:  The purpose of this SPA is to: 
 
• 
Delete language related to nursing facility-specific drug utilization review (DUR) in section 4.14g of the 
state plan.  This text is obsolete and the requirement for this text was repealed by the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services in 1994.  The DMAS DUR Board monitors nursing facilities according 
to the requirements in 42 CFR 456.703. 42 CFR 456.703(b) stipulates that prospective drug review and 
retrospective drug use review (including interventions and education) under the DUR program are not 
required for drugs dispensed to residents of nursing facilities that are in compliance with the drug 
regimen review procedures set forth in 42 CFR 483.45 (the Virginia Department of Health is responsible 
for evaluating nursing facilities’ compliance with 42 CFR 483.45).   
 
• 
Update the nursing facility state survey language to reflect that the Division of Licensure and Certification 
within the Virginia Department of Health has changed its name to the Office of Licensure and Certification 
(OLC) and OLC no longer contracts with the State Fire Marshall’s Office. 
 
Following internal review, the SPA was submitted to DBP and the Tribal Programs for review on 
9/18/25. 
 


--- Page 66 ---
Page 4 of 12 
 
*(09) Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee: The state plan is being amended to update the 
quorum that is needed for the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee (P&T Committee) to take 
action. Item 288.CC.2.a of the 2025 Appropriations Act amended the composition of the P&T 
Committee such that the Committee must be composed of up to 16 members (the Committee is 
currently composed of 12 members and a quorum is seven members). Amending the composition 
to 16 members means a quorum of nine members will be needed for the P&T Committee to take 
action, so the state plan needs to be updated accordingly.  Following the internal and external 
reviews, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/18/25. The corresponding regulatory project is 
currently circulating for internal review. 
 
*(10) Clinic Services:  The state plan is being amended in order to comply with a CMS notice 
indicating that: “The completion of the [SPA] template is mandatory only for states that both cover 
the clinic services benefit and cover tribal clinics to allow clinic services to be provided outside of 
the clinic under the clinic services benefit …” 
 
DMAS covers the optional clinic services benefit, and covers tribal clinics, including the “outside 
of the clinic” benefit, and as a result, is required to file this SPA. The CMS notice was accompanied 
by a draft template. CMS provided a final version of the template for the SPA on March 10, 2025.  
CMS has indicated that state Medicaid agencies must file a blank SPA by March 31, 2025 to 
preserve the option for a January 1, 2025 effective date, while allowing for a tribal consultation 
period before the completed SPA template is submitted. DMAS submitted a blank SPA template 
to CMS by March 31, 2025, and submitted a completed template after tribal consultation occurred.     
 
Virginia Medicaid covers: 
• Medical and Behavioral Health Clinics; 
• IHS and Tribal Clinics;  
• Renal Dialysis Clinics; and  
• Other Clinics, which include health department clinics, ambulatory surgery clinics, 
and family planning clinics. 
 
The SPA template requires DMAS to list any limitations on clinic services. DMAS does not intend 
to make any changes to its practices regarding the scope of clinic services, but to clarify that clinic 
services provided under 42 CFR 440.90 do not include the following services: dental, pharmacy, 
home health, hospice, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech language pathology, 
transportation, 1915(c) waiver services, and community mental health services. To provide those 
services, clinics must enroll as that provider type and abide by the state plan requirements for those 
services. These limitations match current DMAS practice.   
 
In the completed SPA template, DMAS is required to define the scope of tribal clinic services and 
to confirm that clinic services can be provided outside of the four walls of the clinic.  DMAS 
intends to clarify that the scope of tribal clinic services is the same as for non-tribal clinics. DMAS 
will also confirm in the completed SPA template that IHS and tribal clinic services can be provided 
outside of the clinic. Following internal and oversight agency review, the SPA was submitted to 
CMS on 5/15/25. CMS requested additional information on 6/20/25. DMAS is currently 
coordinating a response.  
 


--- Page 67 ---
Page 5 of 12 
 
(11) MR Removal and Updates:  This regulatory action removes the highly offensive term, 
“mentally retarded” from DMAS regulations and replaces it with either “individuals with 
developmental disabilities” or, when required to match federal regulations, the more narrow term 
“individuals with intellectual disabilities”. These replacement terms are currently used in DMAS 
regulations. The reg project also removes references to the Department of Mental Health, Mental 
Retardation and Substance Abuse Services of the Commonwealth of Virginia (DMHMRSAS), as 
the agency is now called the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services 
(DBHDS). The project is currently circulating for internal review. 
 
 
*(13) Youth Reentry:  To meet a federal mandate, DMAS is submitting this SPA on a CMS 
template in accordance with a CMS State Health Official letter (#24-004) indicating that: 
“To comply with the amendments made by section 5121 of the CAA [Consolidated Appropriations 
Act], 2023, states must submit a Medicaid SPA attesting that the state has developed an internal 
operation plan, and in accordance with such plan, will provide coverage during the statutory pre- 
and post-release period of screening, diagnostic, and targeted case management (TCM) services 
for eligible juveniles who are within 30 days of release post adjudication. For Medicaid, a state 
must submit a SPA no later than March 31, 2025, to have an effective date of no later than January 
1, 2025.” 
 
Coverage of pre-release services is a new exception to the longstanding Medicaid inmate payment 
exclusion that otherwise restricts Medicaid coverage of services for individuals while incarcerated. 
Section 5121 of the CAA, 2023 requires states to cover screenings and diagnostic services for 
eligible juveniles, as well as TCM services during this transitional period out of incarceration. 
Services must be provided to Medicaid-eligible individuals under age 21, CHIP (FAMIS) enrolled 
children, and individuals up to age 26 in the Medicaid former foster youth eligibility group.   
Given the complexity associated with implementing Section 5121, CMS has stated that the 
attestation SPA review framework will aim to balance CMS’ regulatory requirements, general 
oversight requirements, and the statutory effective date of January 1, 2025.  The framework for 
reviewing SPAs will be based on states’ readiness to fully implement Section 5121. States will be 
determined as either fully ready, partially ready, or not ready to implement Section 5121.  States 
determined partially ready or not ready to implement will be given additional time to work toward 
*(12) Requirements for Medicaid Consumer-Directed Facilitators:  The state plan is being 
amended to modify requirements for Consumer-Directed (CD) Services Facilitators to eliminate 
the requirement that individuals providing these services have an Associate's or Bachelor's 
Degree in order to provide services. Work experience shall be listed as sufficient in the list of 
requirements. CD Facilitators provide practical skills training (such as providing information on 
recruiting and hiring personal care workers, managing workers and providing information on 
effective communication, and problem-solving) to enable families and individuals to 
independently direct and manage their consumer-directed services. Serving as the agent of the 
individual or family, the facilitator is available to assist in identifying immediate and long-term 
needs, developing options to meet those needs, accessing identified supports and services, and 
training the individual/family to be the employer. Following internal review, the SPA was 
approved by DPB on 6/9/25; approved by HHR on 6/10/25; and submitted to CMS on 7/11/25 
and approved on 8/5/25.   


--- Page 68 ---
Page 6 of 12 
 
full readiness.  In the interim, states determined partially ready will be allowed to claim for services 
in carceral facilities that are ready to participate. 
Following internal review, the project was sent to DPB and the Tribal Programs for review on 
2/25/25. The SPA was submitted to CMS for review on 3/28/25. CMS issued an RAI (request for 
additional information) on 6/16/25 and DMAS submitted responses on 7/11/25. The SPA was 
approved by CMS on 7/21/25.  
 
*(14) Tribal Provider Reimbursement:  The state plan is being amended to make the following 
changes to tribal provider reimbursement:  
 
• Clarify that tribal clinics cannot be reimbursed at the facility rate (all inclusive rate, or AIR) for 
non-clinic services, including pharmacy, dental, transportation, and 1915(c) waiver services.  
• Clarify that tribal FQHCs cannot be reimbursed at the AIR for pharmacy, transportation, and 
1915(c) waiver services. Dental services provided by Tribal FQHCs are reimbursed through the 
Alternative Payment Methodology (APM) established in the Medicaid State Plan at Att. 4.19-B, 
pages 4.6-4.7.  
• Clarify the definition of the per visit rate for purposes of reimbursement at the AIR, specifying 
that it is a bundled, all-inclusive encounter rate and must not be unbundled and billed as separate 
encounter claims.  
• Specify that an Indian Health Service, tribal or urban Indian organization, including a Tribal 638 
facility that operates a retail pharmacy, must enroll separately as a pharmacy provider, and that 
payment for pharmacy services shall align with an existing pharmacy payment methodology and 
shall not be at the AIR. Drugs provided as part of an outpatient clinic visit are included in the all-
inclusive rate for the encounter.  
 
The state plan is also being amended to make a change needed to reflect new federal requirements 
for Medicaid reimbursement to tribal clinics, clarifying that these services include professional 
services furnished at the clinic by or under the direction of a physician, or services furnished 
outside the clinic, by clinic personnel under the direction of a physician. Following internal review, 
the project was sent to DPB and the Tribal Programs for review on 12/20/24. The SPA was 
submitted to CMS for review on 5/15/25. CMS issued DMAS on RAI on 8/4/25 and DMAS is 
currently coordinating responses.  
 
*(15) Update to Non-Covered Drugs:  This SPA will align state plan language related to 
covered outpatient drugs with current law (Section 1927 of the Social Security Act) and current 
DMAS practice. Following internal review, the project was sent to DPB and the Tribal Programs 
for review on 2/26/25. DPB approved the SPA on 3/5/25; the SPA was submitted to HHR for 
review on 3/13/25 and subsequently approved; and the project was submitted to CMS for review 
on 3/28/25. DMAS held a conf. call with CMS on 4/17/25 to discuss the project. CMS forwarded 
recommended changes to the state plan page on 4/23/25. Following internal review, DMAS 
submitted SPA page revisions to CMS on 5/22/25. The SPA was approved by CMS on 6/11/25. 
 
 
2024 General Assembly  
 
(01) Repeal of Case Management Services for Recipients of Auxiliary Grants: This regulatory 
action repeals the regulations associated with case management services for assisted living facility 


--- Page 69 ---
Page 7 of 12 
 
residents receiving auxiliary grants.  DMAS has not provided this service for over ten years, so the 
regulations are outdated and need to be repealed to align with DMAS’ current practices. DMAS 
submitted a SPA to CMS to remove the outdated case management language from the state plan.  
The SPA was approved on September 11, 2024, and this regulatory action will also align the 
Virginia Administrative Code with State Plan language. Following internal review, the reg project 
was submitted to the OAG for review on 11/19/24. The OAG approved the project on 2/21/25 and 
subsequently, the project was submitted to DPB for review on 2/24/25. 
 
(02) Licensed Behavior Analysts — Credentialed Addiction Treatment Professionals: The 
state plan is being amended to add Licensed Behavior Analysts (LBAs) to the definition of 
“Credentialed Addiction Treatment Professional.” LBAs are not currently recognized by DMAS 
in the Addiction and Recovery Treatment Services (ARTS) program as practitioners because 
behavior analysts provide a broad spectrum of behavioral health services. Behavioral Analysis 
does, however, include a subspeciality directed at treating substance use disorders.  Adding LBAs 
to the definition of a “Credentialed Addiction Treatment Professional,” and recognizing them as a 
provider type under the ARTS program, helps address the shortage of available credentialed 
addiction treatment professionals in Virginia. Following internal and oversight agency review, the 
SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/4/24 and approved on 9/11/24. The corresponding regulatory 
project was reviewed/approved internally and submitted to the OAG on 2/6/25. Revisions were 
made to the project on 5/29/25 and an updated agency background document was uploaded to the 
Town Hall. 
 
(03) EPSDT Therapeutic Group Homes: In accordance with the 2024 Appropriations Act, Item 
288.EEEEE, this SPA establishes a per diem rate to therapeutic group homes that provide services 
to youth with an intellectual or developmental disability in addition to a behavioral health 
diagnosis.  Group homes that provide this higher level of service are called “Early and Periodic 
Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment” (or EPSDT) Therapeutic Group Homes. The per diem rate 
for these facilities shall be increased by 50%, effective July 1, 2024. Following internal and 
oversight agency review, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 6/18/24 and approved on 9/5/24. The 
corresponding regulatory project is forthcoming.  
 
(04) Supplemental Payments to Private Hospitals for Physician Services: In accordance with 
the Item 288.OO.9.a-c of the 2024 Appropriations Act, this SPA makes supplemental payments to 
private hospitals and related health systems who intend to execute affiliation agreements with 
public entities that are capable of transferring funds to the department for purposes of covering the 
non-federal share of the authorized payments. Virginia community colleges, Virginia public 
institutions of higher education, local governments, and instrumentalities of local government are 
public entities that are authorized to transfer funds to the department for purposes of covering the 
non-federal share of the authorized payments. Such public entities would enter into an Interagency 
Agreement with the department for this purpose. Following internal and oversight agency review, 
the SPA was submitted to CMS for review on 11/8/24. CMS placed the SPA in a RAI (request for 
additional information) status on 1/15/25. DMAS forwarded a draft response to CMS on 1/22/25.  
 
(05) Adult Dental and 2024 Updates:  This regulatory project (formerly entitled Adult Dental) 
adds language to the Virginia Administrative Code to implement a comprehensive dental benefit 
for adults, in accordance with a mandate from the General Assembly. Following internal review, 
the fast-track project was submitted to the OAG for review on 4/25/24. 


--- Page 70 ---
Page 8 of 12 
 
 
(06) Substance Use Disorder:  This regulatory action will align the Virginia Administrative Code 
(VAC) with DMAS’ current practices.  Specifically, this action will: 
 
• Update the terminology of the Preferred Office Based Opioid Treatment (OBOT) to Preferred 
Office Based Addiction Treatment (OBAT) in 12 VAC 30-130-5020 and 12 VAC30-130-
5040.  In accordance with the 2021 Appropriations Act, Item 313.PPPPP, DMAS already 
expanded the substance use disorder service called OBOT (which had been available only to 
individuals with a primary diagnosis of opioid use disorder) to individuals with a substance-
related or addictive disorder. DMAS updated the terminology in other sections of the VAC in 
a previous regulatory action, but inadvertently missed the references in 12 VAC 30-130-5020 
and 12 VAC30-130-5040. 
• Clarify requirements for the Substance Use Care Coordination as well as the role of the 
licensed practical nurse (LPN) in the opioid treatment program (OTP) setting to align with 
current practices.  LPNs are permitted to provide onsite medication administration treatment 
during the induction phase. 
• Clarify the size of SUD counseling groups to align with current practice. The group size is 
limited to a maximum of 12 individuals, but this may be exceed based on the clinical 
determination of a Credentialed Addiction Treatment Professional (CATP). 
• Update provider licensing references for SUD services (ASAM Levels 2.1, 2.5, 3.1, 3.3, 3.5, 
3.7, and 4.0) to reflect current DBHDS requirements and DMAS current practices.  
 
The project is currently circulating for internal review.  
 
 
2023 General Assembly  
 
 
(01) FAMIS Plan Update: This regulatory action is intended to make technical program updates, 
in addition to reducing the overall regulatory burden on the public in accordance with Executive 
Order 19. The primary advantage of these changes is that they update the regulations to align with 
current practices and remove outdated and unnecessary language from the Virginia Administrative 
Code (VAC).  Following internal review, the project was forwarded to the OAG for review on 
12/26/23. Revisions were made to the project on 5/29/25 and an updated agency background 
document was uploaded to the Town Hall. 
 
(02) Pharmacists as Providers: In accordance with SB 1538 of the 2023 General Assembly, the 
state plan is being revised to provide reimbursement to a pharmacist, pharmacy technician, or 
pharmacy intern when services are (i) performed under the terms of a collaborative agreement as 
defined in § 54.1-3300 and consistent with the terms of a managed care contractor provider 
contract or the state plan or (ii) related to services and treatment in accordance with § 54.1-3303.1. 
Following internal review, the SPA was submitted to CMS on 10/16/23 and approved by CMS on 
12/20/23. Following internal review, the corresponding regulatory project was submitted to the 
OAG for review on 4/25/25.  
 
(03) State-Based Exchange: This state plan amendment explains that The Virginia General 
Assembly passed legislation creating the Health Benefit Exchange Division within the State 


--- Page 71 ---
Page 9 of 12 
 
Corporation Commission to oversee Virginia's transition to a Virginia State Based Exchange 
(SBE).  The SBE is expected to go live in November, 2023. One element of this project is that 
DMAS must file a SPA to reflect the presence of the SBE in Virginia.  
 
The SPA notes that the exchange will: 
“… conduct Medicaid eligibility determinations for groups of individuals whose income eligibility 
is determined based on Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI) methodology and who apply 
through the SBE.  The SBE will not be assigning an individual who is determined eligible for 
Medicaid whose income eligibility is determined using MAGI methodology to a specific eligibility 
group, determining cost sharing (if applicable) or assigning a benefit package.  These functions 
will be performed by the single state agency.  The SBE also refers individuals to the single state 
agency for determination if potentially eligible for non-MAGI Medicaid (e.g. ABD or limited 
coverage) or if potentially eligible for MAGI coverage but the exchange was unable to make a full 
determination. The SBE will not be handling appeals.” Following internal review, the SPA was 
submitted to CMS for review on 5/12/23. The SPA was approved on 8/7/23. Following internal 
review, the project was forwarded to the OAG for review on 5/15/24.   
 
(04) Electronic Visit Verification (EVV) for Home Health: The purpose of this SPA is to 
incorporate changes to the state plan text in accordance with the requirements of the Social 
Security Act (SSA) § 1903(l) regarding EVV as applicable to home health care services across all 
mandates of the SSA and the Cures Act. Virginia is in compliance with section 12006 of the 21st 
Century CURES Act, which required states to implement EVV for personal care services by 
January 1, 2020. Section 12006 of the CURES Act requires states to implement EVV for Home 
Health Care Services (HHCS) by January 1, 2023. Virginia applied for and received a one-year 
Good Faith Effort (GFE) exemption for HHCS. As a result, Virginia implemented EVV for Home 
Health Care Services on July 1, 2023. Following internal review, the SPA was submitted to CMS 
on 8/28/23 and approved on 10/26/23. The corresponding regulatory project was submitted to the 
OAG on 1/17/24 for review. DMAS received OAG comments on 2/13/24, 2/16/24, 3/8/24, 4/8/24, 
4/24/24, and 4/26/24 and DMAS responded to all inquiries and addressed the requested edits. A 
conference call with the OAG was held on 4/23/24. DMAS submitted additional revisions to the 
OAG on 4/24/24. More OAG questions were received on 4/26/24. Revisions were sent to the OAG 
for review on 5/7/24 and 5/14/24. Additional OAG comments were received on 7/22/24. DMAS 
coordinated responses and subsequently participated in a conf. call w/ OCL staff on 8/1/24 to 
discuss the project. DMAS forwarded responses to the OAG for review on 8/13/24. DMAS 
requested a project status update on 9/19/24. The OAG forwarded questions and requested edits 
on 2/19/25. DMAS is coordinating a response.  
 
 
2022 General Assembly  
 
(01) Post Eligibility Special Earnings: The 2022 Appropriations Act, Item 304.ZZ, requires 
DMAS to adjust the post eligibility special earnings allowance for individuals in the 
Commonwealth Coordinated Care Plus (CCC Plus), Community Living (CL), Family and 
Individual Support (FIS), and Building Independence (BI) waiver programs to incentivize 
employment for individuals receiving waiver services. The purpose of this action is to incentivize 
employment for individuals receiving DD waiver services by allowing a percentage of earned 
income to be disregarded when calculating an individual’s contribution to the cost of their waiver 


--- Page 72 ---
Page 10 of 12 
 
services when earning income. This enables individuals enrolled in the DD waiver to keep more 
of their income, without losing financial eligibility for the waiver. This does not result in new 
individuals being added to the DD waiver. The project was submitted to the OAG for review on 
2/7/23. Revisions were made to the project on 5/29/25 and an updated agency background 
document was uploaded to the Town Hall. 
 
(02) Medicaid Enterprise System: The purpose of this final exempt regulatory action is to make 
technical updates to several of the agency’s regulations to reflect the Department’s transition of 
several key information management functions handled through the Virginia Medicaid 
Management Information System (VAMMIS) to a new technology platform called the Medicaid 
Enterprise System (MES). The MES replaced the department’s VAMMIS on April 4, 2022. The 
reg project was posted to the Town Hall on 3/7/23 for OAG review.    
 
*(03) Preventive Services: Item 304.EEEE in the 2022 Appropriations Act requires DMAS to 
“amend the State Plan under Title XIX of the Social Security Act, and any waivers thereof as 
necessary to add coverage of the preventive services provided pursuant to the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) for adult, full Medicaid individuals who are not enrolled 
pursuant to the PPACA.” Following internal review, the DPB and Tribal notices were sent for 
review on 8/30/22. The SPA was submitted to CMS on 9/30/22 and approved by CMS on 12/7/22. 
Following internal review, the corresponding reg project was submitted to the OAG for review on 
7/27/23. Multiple regulatory revisions have been submitted to the OAG and a conf. call was held 
in Nov. ’23. Following internal discussions and review, DMAS re-submitted the project to the 
OAG on 7/31/24 and fielded questions from the OAG on 8/28/24 & 8/29/24. Additional revisions 
were submitted to the OAG on 8/29/24 and 9/3/24, for review. The OAG posed follow-up 
questions to DMAS on 11/26/24. The OAG approved the project on 2/26/25 and the project was 
submitted to DPB for review 3/4/25 and approved on 3/26/25. HHR granted approval on 7/9/25. 
The project was submitted to the Governor’s Office on 7/9/25; approved by ORM and the 
Governor’s Ofc. on 7/22/25; and submitted to the Registrar on 7/22/25. 
 
(04) Third Party Liability Update: This state plan amendment is needed in order to respond to a 
CMS Informational Bulletin requiring states to “ensure that their Medicaid state plans comply with 
third party liability (TPL) requirements reflected in current law.” Virginia’s TPL text required 
updates to reflect current law. The SPA was submitted to CMS on 6/27/22 and approved on 
7/25/22. Following internal review, the corresponding fast-track project was submitted to the OAG 
for review on 12/13/22. Revised regs were sent to the OAG for review on 5/30/23. Minor revisions 
were made to the regs and updated regs were forwarded to the OAG for review on 10/24/23. The 
project was approved by the OAG on 12/27/24 and submitted to DPB for review. DPB approved 
the project on 2/5/25 and the regs were also submitted to HHR for review on 2/5/25.  
 
 
2021 General Assembly  
 
(01) Private Duty Nursing Services Under EPSDT: This regulatory action updates the Virginia 
Administrative Code to include the following items related to private duty nursing, in accordance 
with a mandate from the 2021 General Assembly: services covered, provider qualifications, 
medical necessity criteria, and rates. This regulation establishes the regulatory framework for 
individuals with the need for high-intensity medical care.  Having regulations in place (rather than 


--- Page 73 ---
Page 11 of 12 
 
just language in Medicaid manuals) helps ensure that the rules are clear and transparent, and that 
they are applied equally across providers, and across members. This reg action includes a service 
description, a list of service components, provider qualifications, and service limits (which 
includes references to the documents needed to establish medical necessity). Following internal 
review, the regs were submitted to the OAG on 8/6/21 and then to DPB on 4/6/22. After edits were 
made to the regulations, the project was re-submitted to the OAG on 4/26/22 and sent to DPB on 
5/18/22. The project was forwarded to the Secretary’s Office for review on 6/1/22. Following 
additional internal revisions, the regulations were sent back to HHR on 8/1/22. The reg action was 
forwarded to the Gov’s Ofc. on 9/25/23; to the Register on 10/5/23; and was published in the 
Register on 10/23/23. The 30-day public comment period ended on 11/22/23 and the emergency 
regulation is effective beginning 10/6/23 through 4/5/25. The corresponding fast-track project, 
following internal review, was submitted to the OAG on 3/18/24 for review. On 5/16/25, the OAG 
requested minor edits. DMAS submitted those revisions, via the Town Hall, to the OAG on 
5/29/25.  
 
*(02) School Services:  The purpose of this SPA is to adhere to the 2021 Appropriations Act, 
Items 313.EEEE and VVVV, which require DMAS to make changes to the state plan. These 
changes will: 1) increase the rates for psychiatric services by 14.7 percent for psychiatric services 
to the equivalent of 110 percent of Medicare rates; and 2) increase supplemental physician 
payments for a freestanding children's hospital serving children in Planning District 8. The total 
supplemental Medicaid payment shall be based on the Upper Payment Limit approved by CMS 
and all other Virginia Medicaid fee-for-service payments. The project was submitted to CMS on 
10/18/21. The request for additional information (RAI) for this project was received from CMS on 
1/4/22. DMAS’ RAI response was sent to CMS on 3/30/22. The SPA was approved by CMS on 
9/26/23. Following internal review, the corresponding regulatory action was forwarded to the 
OAG on 2/29/24. DMAS received comments/questions from the OAG and forwarded responses 
on 9/16/25.  
 
(03) Clarifications for Durable Medical Equipment and Supplies – Revisions:  This state plan 
amendment proposes to amend a previous SPA. DMAS previously submitted SPA 20-011 entitled 
"Clarifications for Durable Medical Equipment and Supplies" which was approved by CMS on 
October 20, 2020. Following the approval of SPA 20-011, CMS discovered duplicative wording 
and the necessity to re-categorize a heading on multiple pages, and also requested that DMAS 
submit a new SPA to revise the text on those pages. There is no change to the content or meaning 
of the state plan text as a result of the change. Following internal review, and the submission of 
the DPB and Tribal Programs notifications, the SPA was forwarded to HHR for review on 3/8/21. 
The SPA was approved by CMS on 5/24/21. The corresponding regulatory action was circulated 
for internal review and submitted to the OAG on 8/26/21. The project was re-submitted to the 
OAG for review on 8/11/22. Additional revisions were posted to the Town Hall on 4/16/24. DMAS 
is awaiting further direction. 
 
 
2020 General Assembly  
 
(01) Preadmission Screening and Resident Review (PASRR) Update:  In responding to the 
legislative mandate of the General Assembly, the purpose of this regulatory action is to establish 
regulatory requirements for (i) allowing qualified nursing facility staff to complete the LTSS 


--- Page 74 ---
Page 12 of 12 
 
screening for an individual who applies for or requests LTSS, and who is receiving non-Medicaid 
skilled nursing services in an institutional setting following discharge from an acute care hospital; 
and (ii) protecting an individual’s choice for institutional or community based services and choice 
of provider. Following internal review, the project was submitted to the OAG for review on 1/5/21. 
Questions were received from the OAG on 3/24/21 and revisions were forwarded on 4/14/21. 
Additional revisions were submitted on 4/28/21. The project was submitted to DPB for review on 
6/16/21 and to HHR on 6/29/21. The regs were forwarded to the Governor on 11/20/21 and 
approved on 12/21/21. The project was submitted to the Registrar on 12/22/21; published in the 
Register on 1/17/22; and became effective on 2/16//22. The emergency regs will be in effect until 
8/15/23. Following internal review, the fast-track stage of the reg project was submitted to the 
OAG for review on 12/8/22. DMAS received inquiries from the OAG on 12/16/22, 1/3/23, 1/9/23, 
1/25/23, 2/9/23, 2/13/23, 3/2/23, and 3/13/23. DMAS submitted responses to the multiple OAG 
requests for edits and is awaiting further direction. On 6/15/23, DMAS requested an emergency 
reg extension and notified the OSHHR of the request. On 6/20/23, the Gov.’s Ofc. approved 
extending the emergency regulation until 2/14/24. On 4/17/24, the OAG posed additional 
questions and DMAS submitted responses on 4/25/24. On 5/1/24, DMAS forwarded revised 
regulations and informed the OAG that the revisions are available for review. Revisions were made 
to the project on 5/29/25 and an updated agency background document was uploaded to the Town 
Hall. 
 
(02) 90-Day Prescriptions: The recent Medicaid Disaster Relief SPA allowed DMAS to provide 
90-day prescriptions to Medicaid members (excluding Schedule II drugs), however, that SPA will 
end on the last day of the federal-declared emergency period. DMAS is filing a SPA to allow for 
the provision of a maximum of a 90-day supply for select maintenance drugs dispensed to 
Medicaid members (excluding Schedule II drugs) after the end of the federal emergency period.  
The 90-day supply will be available to Medicaid members after the member has received two (2) 
fills of 34 days or less of the drug. Following internal review, the SPA was filed with CMS on 
11/9/20 and approved on 12/10/20. Following internal review, the corresponding regulatory action 
was submitted to OAG on 1/28/21. Status inquiries were forwarded to the OAG on 7/1/21, 8/10/21, 
8/24/21, 9/14/21, 1/25/22, 3/9/22, 4/13/22, and 7/12/22. The project’s economic impact form was 
uploaded to the Town Hall on 9/30/22. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Items that have completed both their state regulatory process and their federal approval process, 
if a federal approval process was necessary, have been dropped off of this report.
