STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40443\Minutes_DMAS_40443_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
July 18, 2025 
10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. 
 
A quorum of the CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee attended this virtual meeting. The 
meeting link was posted on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall website to allow the public 
to attend virtually. 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members attended: 
• Freddy Mejia, The Commonwealth Institute  
Chair 
• Emily Moore, Voices for Virginia’s Children   
Vice Chair 
 
• Melissa Terrell, Va Department of Social Services (substitute for Irma Blackwell) 
• Dr. Susan Brown, Va Chapter of the American Academy Of Pediatrics 
 
The following DMAS staff were present: 
• Emily Roller, Senior Management Analyst; Policy Division 
• Ali Faruk, Senior Policy Analyst; Policy Division 
 
 
I. 
Welcome – Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair 
Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, called the meeting to order at 10:01 AM. Mejia announced 
that the next full CHIPAC meeting will be held in-person on September 4, 2025. 
 
II. 
CHIPAC Business 
a. Review and approval of minutes from previous meeting. Members reviewed the 
minutes from the April 18 Executive Subcommittee meeting. Emily Moore 
introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Susan Brown seconded. The 
subcommittee approved minutes unanimously.  
 
b. Membership Update. Emily Moore’s 2-year term is set to expire in November. 
Should she choose to continue serving, she’ll begin a second of up to four terms in 
December 2025. 
 
III. 
Planning for September 4, 2025 Full Committee Meeting (in-person) 
Topics raised by the Full Committee as suggestions for the September meeting include 
updates on the Cardinal Care Correspondence Center (DMAS centralized mailroom), a 
discussion on implementing findings from the December 2024 Eligibility Processing 
study, and a Back-to-School outreach and school services update. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
July 18, 2025 
2 
 
Dr. Brown expressed a need for updates based on final Medicaid-related changes in One 
Big Beautiful Bill Act and the potential impacts of new requirements on Virginia’s children 
enrolled in Medicaid/FAMIS. Moore agreed that an overview of eligibility changes is 
important to discuss at the next CHIPAC meeting. Moore agreed that there are enough 
resources that explain the changes but the group really needs updates on how Virginia is 
preparing and how partners can help these efforts. Emily Roller clarified that much of 
implementation (and therefore impact) remains dependent on forthcoming federal 
guidance.  
 
Emily Moore suggested that a school-based services and outreach update be in 
collaboration with the Virginia Department of Education, and if applicable, the Virginia 
Department of Health. Of particular interest is changes pursuant to appropriation 
language revisions (including school-based mental health).    
 
IV. 
Public Comment 
Mejia invited public comment. No public comments were received. The meeting 
adjourned at 10:31 AM.
