STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40436\Agenda_DMAS_40436_v4.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
Virginia’s Department of Medical Assistance Services 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting 
600 East Broad Street – 1st Floor Conference Rooms 
Richmond, Virginia 23219 
Thursday, October 16th, 2025 - 1:00 p.m. 
Welcome and Comments from DMAS’ Director 
Cheryl Roberts, JD Medicaid Director 
Call to Order 
Tim Jennings, PharmD P&T Vice Chair 
Drug Utilization Review (DUR) Board Update 
Rachel Cain, PharmD 
Approval of Minutes from April 24, 2025 Meeting 
P&T Committee Members    
PDL Management 
P&T Committee Members 
Old Business 
PDL Quarter 3 and 4 – Off Cycle New Drug Review (Therapeutic Class) 
New Drugs 
•
Symbravo (Antimigraine Agents)
PDL Quarter 3 and 4– Annual Review:
Classes with updates 
Antivirals 
•
Hepatitis C Agents (Closed Class)
•
HIV (Closed Class)
Blood Modifiers 
•
Bile Salts
•
Colony Stimulating Factors (Closed Class)
•
Hemophilia Treatment (Closed Class)
•
Sickle Cell (Closed Class)
Cardiac Medications 
•
Angiotensin Modulators II (includes Direct Renin Inhibitors & combination products)
•
Angiotensin Modulator Combinations
•
Beta Blockers (includes combination products)
•
Calcium Channel Blockers (includes dihydropyridine and non-dihydropyridine agents)
•
Lipotropics, Other (includes Bile Acid Sequestrants, Cholesterol Absorption Inhibitor agents,
Fibric Acid derivatives, Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein Inhibitors, Niacin derivatives,
Oligonucleotide Inhibitors and Omega 3 agents)
•
Lipotropics, Statins
Central Nervous System  
•
Anticonvulsants (Closed Class)
•
Antidepressants, Other
•
Antidepressants, SSRI
•
Antipsychotics (includes oral and long acting injectables) (Closed Class)
•
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (Closed Class)


--- Page 2 ---
October 16, 2025 P&T Committee Agenda 
Page 2 
Dermatology 
•
Immunomodulators, Atopic Dermatitis (Closed Class)
Endocrine & Metabolic Agents Oral 
•
Glucagon Agents (Closed Class)
•
Glucocorticoids, Oral
•
Growth Hormones (Closed Class)
•
HAE Treatments
Gastrointestinal 
•
Antiemetic/Antivertigo Agents
•
GI Motility, Chronic
Genitourinary 
•
Urinary Antispasmodics (Bladder Relaxants)
•
Alpha-Blockers and Androgen Hormone Inhibitors for Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy (BPH)
Ophthalmic 
•
Allergic Conjunctivitis (includes Ophthalmic Antihistamines & Mast Cell Stabilizers)
•
Glaucoma Agents
Respiratory 
•
Anti-Allergens, Oral
•
Epinephrine, Self-Injected
•
Glucocorticoids (includes nebulized solutions, metered dose inhalers and combinations) (Closed Class)
•
Leukotriene Modifiers
PDL Quarter 3 and 4– Annual Review: 
Therapeutic Classes without Significant Updates (reviewed by the Department)
Antibiotics/Anti-Infectives  
•
Vaginal Antibiotics
Antivirals 
•
Hepatitis B Agents (Closed Class)
Blood Modifiers 
•
Phosphate Binders
Cardiac Medications 
•
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents, Oral/Inhaled/Injectable
Central Nervous System  
•
Movement Disorders (Closed Class)
•
Sedatives/Hypnotics
Dermatology 
•
Steroids, Topical
Gastrointestinal 
•
H. Pylori Agents
•
Laxatives and Cathartics (Closed Class)


--- Page 3 ---
October 16, 2025 P&T Committee Agenda 
Page 3 
•
Proton Pump Inhibitors
•
Ulcerative Colitis
Ophthalmic 
•
Antibiotics
•
Antibiotic/Steroid Combinations
•
Anti-Inflammatory Agents (includes Ophthalmic NSAIDS & Corticosteroids)
•
Anti-Inflammatory Immunomodulator (Closed Class)
Respiratory 
•
Antibiotics, Inhaled (Closed Class)
•
Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating
•
Bronchodilators, Beta Agonist
o
Bronchodilators, Long-Acting Beta Adrenergics
o
Bronchodilators, Short Acting Beta Adrenergics
•
COPD Agents (Closed Class)
•
Intranasal Rhinitis (includes Antihistamines and Corticosteroids)
P&T Committee Members & DMAS Staff 
P&T Committee Members 
P&T Committee Members 
P&T Committee Members 
P&T Committee Members 
P&T Committee Members 
Confidential Meeting (Pricing Information Discussion)  
PDL Recommendations and Vote 
Criteria Discussion of Quarter 3 and 4 New Drugs* 
Criteria Discussion of PDL Quarter 3 and 4 Drug Classes* 
Bylaw Review and Update    
Announcements 
Next Meeting – January 29th 2026.  
*Criteria discussions will be held for classes only if deemed PDL eligible by the P&T Committee during Drug Class
Discussions.


--- Page 4 ---
Virginia  
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee 
Bylaws 
Approved March 23,2023 
ARTICLE I 
COMMITTEE STRUCTURE 
1.1   Name - This body shall be known as the Virginia Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee,  
Hereinafter referred to as the P&T Committee. 
1.2.  
Composition - The P&T Committee shall be composed of eight to 126 members, including the 
Commissioner of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services or a designee. Other 
members shall be selected or approved by the Department of Medical Assistance Services (the Department 
or DMAS) and shall include one physician from each contracted managed care organization. The 
membership shall include a ratio of physicians to pharmacists of 2:1 and the Department shall ensure that 
at least one-half of the physicians and pharmacists are either direct providers or are employed with 
organizations that serve recipients for all segments of the Medicaid population. Physicians on the 
Committee shall be licensed in Virginia, one of whom shall be a psychiatrist, one of whom provides care 
to the pediatric members and one of whom specializes in care for the aging. Pharmacists on the Committee 
shall be licensed in Virginia, one of whom shall have clinical expertise in mental health drugs, and one of 
whom has clinical expertise in community-based mental health treatment. 
1.3  
Appointments and Terms - Vacancies on the P&T Committee shall be filled in the same manner as 
original appointments. The Department shall appoint individuals for the committee that assures a cross-
section of the physician and pharmacy community.  
1. P&T Committee members shall serve four-year terms and may be reappointed to additional terms
at the discretion of the Director of the Department. The committee replacement will be staggered,
to ensure no more than 34 new members at any time or to add new members in compliance with
the Appropriations Act.
2. Members of the Committee shall attend all regular and special meetings unless the member
provides prior written notice of good cause (including emergency situations) to the Director or
Committee Chair.
3. The Director of the Department may terminate the appointment of any P&T Committee member
at any time or for violating these bylaws.
ARTICLE II 
P&T CommitteeOMMITTEE MeetingsEETINGS 
2.1 
Regular Meetings - Meet at least bisemi-annually and may meet at other times at the discretion of 
the chairperson and members. 
2.2 
Special Meetings – The P&T Committee may meet at such other times and places as the Director 


--- Page 5 ---
2 
 
of DMAS or the chairperson determines to be necessary and appropriate.  Reasonable effort must be made 
by or on behalf of the chairperson to notify each P&T Committee member of the meeting. 
2.3  
Unless otherwise notified, meetings will be held in Richmond, VA. 
2.4  
Notice - an agenda will be prepared and posted at least three (3) businessworking days prior to 
the meeting. The clinical data used for drug class review will be prepared and distributed to the P&T 
Committee members and Department staff at least one week in advance of meetings to allow for sufficient 
review time.  Notice of all regular meetings shall also be announced at least three (3) working days in 
advance of the meeting by publication in the Virginia Register or the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall. 
 
2.5  
Quorum – Seven (79) members of the P&T Committee shall constitute a quorum or a simple 
majority if there are less than twelve (126) appointed members on Committee.  A quorum of the Committee 
must be physically assembled at the primary or central meeting location identified in the public notice 
required for the meeting, unless the meeting is held during a declared state of emergency. 
2.6  
Closed meetings – Prior to meeting in a closed meeting, the P&T Committee must vote 
affirmatively to do so and must announce the purpose of the meeting. This purpose shall consist of one or 
more of the reasons for which closed meetings are permitted in accordance with SectionVa. Code § 2.2-
3711 of the Code of Virginia. 
Discussion in the closed session must be limited to the subject or subjects stated in the motion. No final 
action may be taken in the closed session. Upon return to open session, any action taken, or motion adopted 
must be restated, voted upon, and placed in the minutes in order to become effective. 
2.7  
Conduct of Business — The rules contained in the most recently published edition of Roberts Rules 
of Order Newly Revised shall govern the P&T Committee in all cases to which they are applicable, to the 
extent that they are not inconsistent with the laws of Virginia, these Bylaws, or any special rule which the 
P&T Committee may adopt. 
2.8  
Administrative Duties - The P&T Committee shall be assisted in carrying out its administrative 
duties, including the maintenance of minutes and records, by staff provided by the Director of DMAS and 
the Preferred Drug List (PDL) Vendor. 
2.9 
Electronic Participation in Meetings  
1. Remote Participation of Members - An individual member may participate in a meeting of the 
P&T Committee or a public meeting of any committee established by the P&T Committee through 
electronic communication from a remote location, as permitted by Va. Code § 2.2-3708.3 of the 
Code of Virginia, by following the procedures outlined in Appendix A.  During a state of 
emergency declared by the Governor, the procedures outlined in Va. Code § 2.2-3708.2 shall be 
followed.  
2. All-virtual Meetings – The P&T Committee may, in its discretion but only as permitted by Va. 
Code § 2.2-3708.3, conduct a public meeting using electronic communication means during which 
all members of the public body who participate do so remotely rather than being assembled in one 
physical location, and to which public access is provided through electronic means, as defined in 
Va. Code § 2.2-3701. The P&T Committee shall follow the procedures outlined in Appendix B to 
conduct all-virtual meetings.  
Excluding during Declared States of Emergency – An individual member may participate in a meeting of 
the P&T Committee or a public meeting of any committee established by the P&T Committee through 
electronic communication from a remote location for the following reasons: 


--- Page 6 ---
3 
 
1.  A temporary or permanent disability or other medical condition prevents the member’s 
physical attendance; 
2.  A family member’s medical condition that requires the member to provide care for such 
family member, thereby preventing the member’s physical attendance; 
3.  A member’s principal residence is more than 60 miles from the meeting location; or 
4.  A personal matter prevents the member’s physical attendance and identifies with specificity 
the nature of the personal matter. 
 
Procedure for Approval: 
 
1. Notification: The member requesting to participate through electronic communication from a 
remote location must notify the P&T Committee or Committee Chair on or before the day of the 
meeting. 
 
2.  Quorum: A quorum of the P&T Committee, or a simple majority of the Committee, must be 
physically assembled at the primary or central meeting location identified in the public notice 
required for the meeting. 
 
3.  Technological Arrangements: Arrangements must be made for the voice of the remote participant 
to be heard by all persons at the primary or central meeting location. 
 
4.  Documentation: The specific reason the member is unable to attend the meeting, and the remote 
location from which the member participates, shall be recorded in the meeting minutes; 
notwithstanding this disclosure requirement, the specific medical condition(s) or related clinical 
information affecting the member requesting virtual participation shall not be publicly disclosed but 
will instead be treated as consistent with Protected Health Information. The nature of the personal 
matter shall also be included in the minutes. The remote location from which the member participates 
need not be open to the public and may be identified in the minutes by general description. 
 
5.  Limitation: Members may only participate through electronic communication due to personal 
matters for no more than two meetings of the P&T Committee.  If a Committee votes to disapprove 
the member’s electronic participation from a remote location, such disapproval shall be recorded in 
the minutes. 
 
2.10 
Electronic Participation in Meetings During Declared States of Emergency – The P&T 
Committee may meet by electronic communication means without a quorum of the public body 
physically assembled at one location when the Governor has declared a state of emergency in accordance 
with Virginia Code § 44-146.17 or the locality in which the public body is located has declared a local 
state of emergency pursuant to Virginia Code § 44-146.21, provided that: 
A.   the catastrophic nature of the declared emergency makes it impracticable or unsafe to assemble a 
quorum in a single location and  
B. the purpose of the meeting is to provide for the continuity of operations of the P&T Committee or the 
discharge of its lawful purposes, duties, and responsibilities. The P&T Committee shall: 
1. Give public notice using the best available method given the nature of the emergency, which 
notice shall be given contemporaneously with the notice provided to members of the P&T Committee; 
2. Arrange for public access to such meeting through electronic communication means, including 


--- Page 7 ---
4 
 
videoconferencing if already used by the P&T Committee; and 
3. Provide the public with the opportunity to comment at P&T Committee meetings when public 
comment is customarily received. 
The nature of the emergency, the fact that the meeting was held by electronic communication means, and 
the type of electronic communication means by which the meeting was held shall be stated in the minutes. 
 
2.11 
 Oral Presentations - The P&T Committee in conjunction with the Department will allocate time 
slots for interested parties to present scientific and clinical information only on the drug classes scheduled 
for review on the agenda and will be limited to a maximum of two minutes, unless otherwise stated by the 
P&T Committee Chair or the Department. One presentation per product will be permitted.                       
a. The time limit does not include follow-up questions by the P&T Committee or answers to those 
follow-up questions. Stakeholders will be called to present in the order of the agenda or as 
determined by the chair.  
b.  Stakeholders must disclose if they receive any compensation from pharmaceutical 
manufacturers. 
c. Presentations must be limited to verbal comments. No visual aids, other than designated 
handouts, are permitted. Presentations should follow the summary that was submitted to the 
Department. 
d. All presentations must include information published in a peer reviewed journal (per guidelines 
below) that is clinical in nature and based on scientific material.  
e. The references used to authorize presentations must be within the following timeframes: 
1. PDL classes that are for Annual review on the agenda, within the past year 
2. New Drugs in PDL Phase I or II Drug Classes on the agenda, within the past year 
3. Potential new PDL Phase Drug Classes on the agenda, within the past two years 
f. Speakers will be decided by the Chairperson based on relevancy of the information.  
g. Speakers must receive a confirmation number to verify the presentation is scheduled. 
h. Anyone interested in providing specific clinical information to the Committee at the meeting 
must submit an outline of discussion points, clinical references (within the stated guidelines above) 
and a written request to speak with the name/title of the presenter. Please send requested 
information to pdlinput@dmas.virginia.gov and the second e-mail identified on the agenda by 5 
p.m. EST on the published deadline. 
i. Written information/comments: All stakeholders (including manufacturers) submitting 
comments shall include a one-page summation (one side only) of the drug product that will be 
included in the review packet provided to the P&T Committee members. The summary must be 
limited to clinical information only. 
j. No late requests will be approved. 
 
2.12 
 Stakeholder Comments – The P&T Committee in conjunction with the Department, will allocate 
up to two minutes for practicing clinicians who care for Virginia Medicaid members to share clinical 
recommendations regarding the drug classes scheduled for review. Guidelines for clinical recommendations 
are included below.                                         
a. 
Clearly indicate the product and drug class the comments represent. 
 
b. 
Limit to clinical information only. 
 


--- Page 8 ---
5 
 
c. 
Exclude any reference to cost. 
 
d. 
Exclude anecdotal content. 
 
e. 
Exclude general drug or disease specific economic information. 
 
f. 
Please send written information/comments to pdlinput@dmas.virginia.gov and the second 
e-mail identified on the agenda by 5 p.m. EST on the published deadline. 
 
g. 
No late comments will be included. 
ARTICLE III 
OFFICERS 
3.1.  
Types of Officer - The Chair and Vice-Chair  
3.2  
Duties of the Chair - The Chair presides over the meetings of the P&T Committee. 
3.3  
Duties of the Vice-Chair - The responsibilities of the Vice-Chair are to preside over meetings of 
the P&T Committee in the Chair’s absence. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
P&T COMMITTEE AUTHORITY 
 
4.1  
Powers and Duties - The P&T Committee shall, among other things: 
 
a. 
Receive and review clinical and pricing data related to the drug classes. The P&T 
Committee's medical and pharmacy experts shall make recommendations to DMAS 
regarding various aspects of the pharmacy program. For the PDL program, the 
Committee shall select drugs to be deemed preferred that are safe and clinically 
effective, as supported by available clinical data, and that advance population health 
and that meet pricing standards.  
 
b. 
Consider the population health implications of recommendations, as appropriate. 
Population health includes the absence of disparities or avoidable differences among 
socioeconomic and demographic groups or geographical areas in health status and 
health outcomes such as disease, disability, or mortality. 
 
c. 
Consider cost effectiveness or any pricing standard only after the coverage of a drug 
is determined to be safe, clinically effective and advance population health wherever 
possible. The Committee shall recommend to the Department:  
(1) Which therapeutic classes of drugs should be subject to the PDL program and 
prior authorization requirements;  
(2) Specific drugs within each therapeutic class to be included on the PDL;  
(3) Appropriate exclusions for therapeutic classes in which there is only one drug 
in the therapeutic class or there is very low utilization, or for which it is not 
cost effective to include in the PDL program;  


--- Page 9 ---
6 
 
(4) Appropriate exclusions for medications, including atypical anti-psychotics, 
used for the treatment of serious mental illnesses such as bi-polar disorders, 
schizophrenia, and depression;  
(5) Appropriate exclusions for medications used for the treatment of brain 
disorders, cancer and HIV-related conditions;  
(6) Appropriate exceptions when prior authorization would interfere with 
established complex drug regimens that have proven to be clinically effective; 
and 
(7) Guidance and recommendations regarding the department's pharmacy 
programs.  
 
d. 
Ensure that the P&T Committee will evaluate the drug for clinical effectiveness and 
safety as the United States Food and Drug Administration approves new drug 
products. Based on clinical information, population health impact and pricing 
standards, the P&T Committee will determine if the drug will be included in the 
PDL.  
 
(1) If the new drug product falls within a drug class previously reviewed by the 
P&T Committee, until the review of the new legend drug is completed, it will 
be classified as no preferred, requiring prior authorization in order to be 
dispensed. The new legend drug will be evaluated for inclusion in the PDL no 
later than at the next review of the drug class.  
 
(2) If the new drug product does not fall within a drug class previously reviewed 
by the P&T Committee, the new drug shall be treated in the same manner as 
the other drugs in its class.  
 
e. 
To the extent feasible, the P&T Committee shall review all drug classes included in 
the PDL at least every 12 months and may recommend additions to and deletions 
from the PDL.  
 
4.2.  
Administration - P&T Committee administrative activities are supported by a vendor as designated 
by DMAS. These activities include management, implementation and administration of the Medicaid 
pharmacy benefits Preferred Drug List (PDL), as directed and authorized, and as may be amended from 
time to time, by DMAS. 
 
The Department, as the sole Title XIX authority for the Commonwealth, shall retain final administrative 
authority over all pharmacy services. 
 
4.3 
 Inducements prohibited - The Department shall not offer or pay directly or indirectly any material 
inducement, bonus, or other financial incentive to a program contractor based on the denial or 
administrative delay of medically appropriate prescription drug therapy, or on the decreased use of a 
particular drug or class of drugs, or a reduction in the proportion of beneficiaries who receive prescription 
drug 
therapy 
under 
the 
Medicaid 
program.                           
Bonuses shall not be based on the percentage of cost savings generated under the benefit management of 
services. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
DISCLOSURES AND CONFLICTS 
 


--- Page 10 ---
7 
 
5.1  
Annual Disclosure - P&T Committee members must disclose annually at the beginning of any P&T 
Committee meeting, any conflicts of interest that would make it difficult to fulfill P&T Committee duties 
in an objective manner. 
a. 
Disclosure to Committee and Recusal 
 
1. If a P&T Committee member has an actual or apparent conflict of interest, the 
member must announce that during the meeting and prior to voting. 
 
2. If the member has an actual conflict of interest, the member should recuse, 
despite voluntary disclosure. After announcing recusal, the member shall not 
participate in the deliberation and vote. 
 
b. 
Apparent conflict of interest 
 
1. If the Committee member does not self-recuse, then the Committee shall vote 
whether the member shall be permitted to participate in discussion and vote. The 
Department will consider the Committee’s vote and make a final determination 
whether the member shall be permitted to participate in the particular PDL class’ 
discussion and vote. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
REVISION AND COMPLIANCE 
 
6.1  
Review -The Bylaws shall be reviewed at least every three years. Revisions shall be made as 
necessary, and the Bylaws signed and dated to indicate the time of the last review. 
 
6.2  
Amendments – The Bylaws may be amended at any regular meeting of the P&T Committee by a 
majority vote, provide that the proposed amendment was submitted in writing at the previous regular 
meeting of the P&T Committee and is also included in the notice of the meeting at which a vote is to be 
taken.   
  
 
Approved 
 
 
 
 
__John_Morgan__________________________________________________4/18/2023_____________
Chair, Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee                                                      Date 


--- Page 11 ---
PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS COMMITTEE  
POLICY FOR THE REMOTE PARTICIPATION OF MEMBERS 
1. AUTHORITY AND SCOPE  
a. This policy is adopted pursuant to the authorization of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.3 
and is to be strictly construed in conformance with the Virginia Freedom of 
Information Act (VFOIA), Va. Code §§ 2.2-3700-3715. 
b. This policy shall not govern an electronic meeting conducted to address a 
state of emergency declared by the Governor. Any meeting conducted by 
electronic communication means under such circumstances shall be governed 
by the provisions of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.2. This policy also does not apply 
to an all-virtual public meeting.  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
a. “P&T Committee” means the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee or any 
committee, subcommittee, or other entity of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics 
Committee.   
b. “Member” means any member of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee.  
c. “Remote Participation” means participation by an individual Member of the 
P&T Committee by electronic communication means in a public meeting at 
which a quorum of the P&T Committee is physically assembled, as defined 
by Va. Code § 2.2-3701. 
d. “Meeting” means a meeting as defined by Va. Code § 2.2-3701. 
e. “Notify” or “notifies,” for purposes of this policy, means written notice, such 
as email or letter. Notice does not include text messages or communications 
via social media, messaging applications, or other instant messaging 
applications or systems. 
 
3. MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS  
Regardless of the basis for the Member’s participation in a meeting from a remote 
location by electronic communication means, the following conditions must be met 
for the Member to participate remotely: 
a. A quorum of the P&T Committee must be physically assembled at the 
primary or central meeting location (For purposes of determining whether a 
quorum is physically assembled, a Member who is either a person with a 
disability as defined in Va. Code § 51.5-40.1 and uses remote participation 
as provided under Section 4.a.i below or is a caregiver for a person with a 
disability and uses remote participation as provided under Section 4.a.ii 
below counts toward the quorum as if the individual was physically present); 
and  
b. Arrangements have been made for the voice of the remotely participating 
Member to be heard by all persons at the primary or central meeting location. 


--- Page 12 ---
2 
 
If at any point during the meeting the voice of the remotely participating 
Member is no longer able to be heard by all persons at the meeting location, 
the remotely participating member shall no longer be permitted to participate 
remotely. 
 
4. PROCESS TO REQUEST REMOTE PARTICIPATION 
a. On or before the day of the meeting, and at any point before the meeting 
begins, the requesting Member must notify the P&T Committee Chair (or the 
Vice-Chair if the requesting Member is the Chair) and the DMAS Pharmacy 
Operations Manager that he/she is unable to physically attend the meeting 
due to (i) a temporary or permanent disability or other medical condition that 
prevents the Member’s physical attendance, (ii) a family member’s medical 
condition that requires the Member to provide care for such family member, 
thereby preventing the Member’s physical attendance or the Member is a 
caregiver who must provide for a person with a disability at the time the 
public meeting is being held thereby preventing the Member’s physical 
attendance, (iii) the Member’s principal residence location is more than 60 
miles from the meeting location, or (iv) a personal matter and identifies with 
specificity the nature of the personal matter.   
b. If the requesting Member is unable to physically attend the meeting due to a 
personal matter, the requesting Member must state with specificity the nature 
of the personal matter. Remote participation due to a personal matter is 
limited each calendar year to two meetings or 25 percent of the meetings held 
per calendar year rounded up to the next whole number, whichever is greater. 
There is no limit to the number of times that a member may participate 
remotely for the other authorized purposes listed in (i)-(iii) in subsection 4.a 
above. 
c. The requesting Member is not obligated to provide independent verification 
regarding the reason for his/her nonattendance, including the temporary or 
permanent disability or other medical condition or the family member’s 
medical condition that prevents the Member’s physical attendance at the 
meeting. 
d. The DMAS Pharmacy Operations Manager will promptly notify the 
requesting Member whether the request is in conformance with this policy 
and therefore approved or disapproved. 
 
5. PROCESS 
TO 
CONFIRM 
APPROVAL 
OR 
DISAPPROVAL 
OF 
PARTICIPATION FROM A REMOTE LOCATION 
 
When a quorum of the P&T Committee has assembled for the meeting, the P&T 
Committee shall vote to determine whether: 


--- Page 13 ---
3 
 
a. The Chair’s decision to approve or disapprove the requesting Member’s 
request to participate from a remote location was in conformance with this 
policy; and  
b. The voice of the remotely participating Member can be heard by all persons 
at the primary or central meeting location. 
 
6. RECORDING IN MINUTES 
a. If the Member is allowed to participate remotely due to a temporary or 
permanent disability or other medical condition, a family member’s medical 
condition that requires the Member to provide care to the family member, or 
because the Member’s principal residence is located more than 60 miles from 
the meeting location the P&T Committee shall record in its minutes (1) the 
P&T Committee’s approval of the Member’s remote participation; and (2) a 
general description of the remote location from which the Member 
participated. 
b. If the Member is allowed to participate remotely due to a personal matter, 
such matter shall be cited in the minutes with specificity, as well as how many 
times the Member has attended remotely due to a personal matter, and a 
general description of the remote location from which the Member 
participated. 
c. If a Member’s request to participate remotely is disapproved, the disapproval, 
including the grounds upon which the requested participation violates this 
Policy or VFOIA, shall be recorded in the minutes with specificity. 
 
7. CLOSED SESSION 
If the P&T Committee goes into closed session, the Member participating remotely 
shall ensure that no third party is able to hear or otherwise observe the closed 
meeting. 
8. STRICT AND UNIFORM APPLICATION OF THIS POLICY 
This Policy shall be applied strictly and uniformly, without exception, to the entire 
membership, and without regard to the identity of the Member requesting remote 
participation or the matters that will be considered or voted on at the meeting.  
The Chair (or Vice-Chair) shall maintain the Member’s written request to participate 
remotely and the written response for a period of one year, or other such time 
required by records retention laws, regulations, and policies. 
 
Revised and Adopted –  


--- Page 14 ---
Appendix B 
 
PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS COMMITTEE 
POLICY FOR ALL-VIRTUAL MEETINGS 
1. AUTHORITY AND SCOPE  
a. This policy is adopted pursuant to the authorization of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.3 
and is to be strictly construed in conformance with the Virginia Freedom of 
Information Act (VFOIA), Va. Code §§ 2.2-3700 through 2.2-3715. 
b. This policy shall not govern an electronic meeting conducted to address a 
state of emergency declared by the Governor. Any meeting conducted by 
electronic communication means under such circumstances shall be governed 
by the provisions of Va. Code § 2.2-3708.2.  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
a. “P&T Committee” means the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee  or any 
committee, subcommittee, or other entity of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics 
Committee.   
b. “Member” means any member of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee.  
c. “All-virtual public meeting” means a public meeting conducted by the P&T 
Committee using electronic communication means during which all members 
of the public body who participate do so remotely rather than being 
assembled in one physical location, and to which public access is provided 
through electronic communication means, as defined by Va. Code § 2.2-
3701. 
d. “Meeting” means a meeting as defined by Va. Code § 2.2-3701. 
e. “Notify” or “notifies,” for purposes of this policy, means written notice, 
including but not limited to, email or letter. Notice does not include text 
messages or communications via social media, messaging applications, or 
other instant messaging applications or systems. 
 
3. WHEN AN ALL-VIRTUAL MEETING MAY BE AUTHORIZED  
An all-virtual public meeting may be held under the following circumstances:  
a. It is impracticable or unsafe to assemble a quorum of the P&T Committee in 
a single location, but a state of emergency has not been declared by the 
Governor; or 
b. Other circumstances warrant the holding of an all-virtual public meeting, 
including, but not limited to, the convenience of an all-virtual meeting; and  
i. The P&T Committee has not had more than two all-virtual public 
meetings, or more than 50 percent of its meetings rounded up to the 
next whole number, whichever is greater, during the calendar year; 
and 


--- Page 15 ---
Appendix B 
 
ii. The P&T Committee’s last meeting was not an all-virtual public 
meeting.  
 
4. PROCESS TO AUTHORIZE AN ALL-VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING  
a. The P&T Committee may schedule its all-virtual public meetings at the same 
time and using the same procedures used by the P&T Committee to set its 
meetings calendar for the calendar year; or 
b. If the P&T Committee wishes to have an all-virtual public meeting on a date 
not scheduled in advance on its meetings calendar, and an all-virtual public 
meeting is authorized under Section 3 above, the P&T Committee Chair may 
schedule an all-virtual public meeting provided than any such meeting 
comports with VFOIA notice requirements.  
 
5. ALL-VIRTUAL PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS  
The following applies to any all-virtual public meeting of the P&T Committee that 
is scheduled in conformance with this Policy: 
 
a. The meeting notice indicates that the public meeting will be all-virtual and 
the P&T Committee will not change the method by which the P&T 
Committee chooses to meet without providing a new meeting notice that 
comports with VFOIA; 
b. Public access is provided by electronic communication means that allows the 
public to hear all participating members of the P&T Committee;  
c. Audio-visual technology, if available, is used to allow the public to see the 
Members of the P&T Committee; 
d. A phone number, email address, or other live contact information is provided 
to the public to alert the P&T Committee if electronic transmission of the 
meeting fails for the public, and if such transmission fails, the Committee 
takes a recess until public access is restored; 
e. A copy of the proposed agenda and all agenda packets (unless exempt from 
VFOIA disclosure requirements) are made available to the public 
electronically at the same time such materials are provided to the Committee; 
f. The public is afforded the opportunity to comment through electronic means, 
including written comments, at meetings where public comment is 
customarily received; 
g. There are no more than two Members of the P&T Committee together in one 
physical location; and; 
h. When audio-visual technology is available, a Member shall, for purposes of 
a quorum, be considered absent from any portion of the meeting during which 
visual communication with the Member is voluntarily disconnected or 
otherwise fails or during which audio communication involuntarily fails. 
 


--- Page 16 ---
Appendix B 
 
 
6. RECORDING IN MINUTES 
Meetings are taken as required by VFOIA and must include the fact that the meeting 
was held by electronic communication means and the type of electronic 
communication means used.  
7. CLOSED SESSION 
If the P&T Committee goes into closed session, transmission of the meeting will be 
suspended until the public body resumes to certify the closed meeting in open 
session.  
Revised and Adopted –
