STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42862\Minutes_DMAS_42862_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Impact Monitoring Subcommittee Meeting 
DRAFT Minutes 
Friday, January 16, 2026 
 
I. Welcome. Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, welcomed members at 11:01am. The following 
members of the CHIPAC were present:  
• Joanna Fowler, Virginia Health Care Foundation 
• Victoria Richardson, Virginia Poverty Law Center 
• Emily Lafon (substitute for Kelly Cannon), Virginia Hospital and Healthcare 
Association 
 
Mejia welcomed Victoria Richardson to her first meeting, and noted that Emily Moore, who 
had previously participated in the Subcommittee, had left her position with Voices for 
Virginia’s Children and would no longer be a CHIPAC member.  
 
II. Subcommittee Topics Discussion. Mejia reiterated the purpose of the Subcommittee: to 
monitor changes due to federal H.R. 1 legislation and other administrative measures, and 
their impacts on children’s health coverage. The Subcommittee aims to send a series of 
recommendations to the appropriate Executive Branch decisionmakers by December 2026. 
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has been invited to deliver a presentation about 
other states’ actions to mitigate impacts of H.R. 1 at the April Subcommittee meeting. 
 
Victoria Richardson suggested an emphasis on Medicaid coverage transitions for young 
adults who would age into Medicaid Expansion, and would then be expected to meet 
work/education/volunteer service requirements under H.R. 1 (unless exempt). Mejia 
echoed this as a good example of the “weedier” topics the subcommittee might examine, 
over and above the high-level H.R. 1 overviews that would be shared in Full Committee 
meetings. 
 
Joanna Fowler suggested examining differences in year-over-year enrollment in Virginia’s 
Insurance Marketplace (VIM) among children and families because of the expiration of 
federal enhanced premium tax credits, and impacts of data sharing between CMS and 
immigration enforcement agencies on families’ decisions to enroll or renew 
Medicaid/FAMIS for their children. Fowler suggested the subcommittee might benefit from 
analyzing the “chilling effect” produced by this data privacy concern as well as a recent 
CMS announcement regarding Public Charge. 
 
Mejia noted that with the General Assembly session underway there may be additional 
items to explore. The subcommittee may consider a presentation or brief regarding the 


--- Page 2 ---
DRAFT Minutes 
CHIPAC Federal Impact Monitoring Subcommittee  
January 16, 2026 
 
different potential measurement methodologies to assess impacts in closer to real-time. 
 
III. Next Steps. The CHIPAC introductory one-pager will be delivered to the Spanberger 
Administration early in the year. The subcommittee will want to hear from the VIM, if 
possible, at an upcoming meeting regarding the number of children and young people who 
are no longer enrolled in Marketplace coverage as compared to years prior. 
 
Mejia noted that it may also be beneficial to hear, given changes to the CMS Core Set 
quality measures around childhood vaccination, whether DMAS will consider continuing to 
collect data on vaccinations. 
 
IV. Public Comment. Mejia opened the floor for public comment at 11:29am. LeVar Bowers 
commented that it was not clear whether the public knows changes to states’ vaccine 
measurement requirements do not impact states’ vaccine coverage requirements. 
Combatting misinformation with correct information would be helpful to the community. 
Bowers thanked the Subcommittee and wished all a happy new year. 
 
Mejia thanked Bowers for the comment and echoed the importance of ensuring families 
have accurate information about vaccine coverage. The meeting adjourned at 11:32am.
