STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42267\Minutes_DMAS_42267_v2.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2026 
10:00am 
 
A quorum of the CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee attended this all-virtual meeting. The 
meeting link was posted on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall website to allow members 
of the public to attend. 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members attended: 
• Freddy Mejia, The Commonwealth Institute  
Chair 
• Irma Blackwell, Virginia Department of Social Services 
• Dr. Susan Brown, Virginia Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members were not present: 
• Kelly Cannon, Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
 
The following DMAS staff were present: 
• Emily Roller, Senior Management Analyst; Policy Division 
• Ali Faruk, Senior Policy Analyst; Policy Division 
 
I. 
Welcome – Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair 
Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, called the meeting to order at 10:02am. Mejia reminded the 
public that the purpose of the Executive Subcommittee meetings is to plan the upcoming full 
Committee meeting, to be held on March 5 at DMAS (with a virtual attendance option 
available for members of the public). A quorum was present and business could continue. 
Mejia welcomed members of the public. 
 
II. 
CHIPAC Business 
a. Review and approval of minutes from previous meeting. Members reviewed the 
minutes from the October 17 Executive Subcommittee meeting. Irma Blackwell 
introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Susan Brown seconded. The 
subcommittee approved minutes unanimously.  
 
b. Membership/Officer Update. Emily Moore from Voices for Virginia’s Children (VVC), 
CHIPAC Vice Chair, has left VVC for a new position and will no longer serve on 
CHIPAC. VVC is not a code-mandated member organization but has long had a 
representative on the Committee, and Mejia encouraged Executive Subcommittee 
members to consider approaching VVC about a new Full Committee representative 
from that organization. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2026 
2 
Mejia also noted that with Moore’s departure, the CHIPAC will need to nominate and 
elect a new Vice Chair at the March 5 meeting. 
 
III. 
Planning for March 2026 Full Committee Meeting (in-person). The proposed agenda will 
include: 
1) CHIPAC Business  
a. Review/approval of minutes from previous Full Committee meeting 
b. Membership and leadership updates. Meeting will include a vote on potential 
new member from a dental-focused organization, and/or a new representative 
from VVC. Members will be invited to nominate and a vote on new Vice Chair 
officer, to begin immediately. 
2) Presentations. The Executive Subcommittee proposed discussing legislative session 
activity pertaining to children and families eligible for or enrolled in Medicaid/FAMIS, a 
new DMAS dashboard that features data regarding “churn” (wherein members move 
out of Medicaid/FAMIS coverage but return to it shortly thereafter), and an update on 
DMAS’s implementation of the federal H.R. 1, including new Medicaid Expansion 
work/education/volunteer reporting requirements and 6-month redetermination 
cadence. 
 
Other potential topics including points of cohesion with the new federally required 
Beneficiary Advisory Council (formerly known as the “Member Advisory Committee”), 
availability of local resources/guides to assist families with benefits beyond 
Medicaid/FAMIS, and coverage transitions for children and youth with special health 
care needs, may be discussed at a later meeting. 
3) Committee Discussion.  
4) Public Comment.  
 
IV. 
Public Comment 
Mejia invited public comment at 10:34am. While members of the public were in 
attendance, no public comment was made. The meeting adjourned at 10:36am.
