STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40444\Minutes_DMAS_40444_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
October 17, 2025 
10:00am 
 
A quorum of the CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee attended this in-person meeting. The 
meeting link was posted on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall website to allow the public 
to attend virtually. 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members attended: 
• Freddy Mejia, The Commonwealth Institute  
Chair 
• Emily Moore, Voices for Virginia’s Children   
Vice Chair 
 
• Irma Blackwell, Virginia Department of Social Services 
 
The following CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee members did not attend: 
• Kelly Cannon, Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association 
• Dr. Susan Brown, Virginia Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics 
 
The following DMAS staff were present: 
• Emily Roller, Senior Management Analyst; Policy Division 
 
I. 
Welcome – Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair 
Freddy Mejia, CHIPAC Chair, called the meeting to order at 10:01am. Mejia announced 
that while two members of the Executive Subcommittee were unable to attend due to last-
minute schedule changes, a quorum was present and business could continue. Mejia 
welcomed members of the public. 
 
II. 
CHIPAC Business 
a. Review and approval of minutes from previous meeting. Members reviewed the 
minutes from the July 18 Executive Subcommittee meeting. Emily Moore 
introduced a motion to approve the minutes, which Mejia seconded. The 
subcommittee approved minutes unanimously.  
 
b. Membership Update. Ben Barber from Virginia Health Catalyst, a relatively new 
CHIPAC member, has left Catalyst for a new position and will no longer be able to 
serve on CHIPAC. Catalyst has historically brought needed dental expertise to the 
Committee, and Mejia encouraged Executive Subcommittee members to consider 
potential new Full Committee members with that expertise and reach out to him 
with ideas. Moore recommended seeking a potential member from the Virginia 
Academy of Pediatric Dentistry. Mejia also suggested connecting with other CHIPAC 


--- Page 2 ---
 
CHIPAC Executive Subcommittee Meeting Minutes 
October 17, 2025 
2 
members to garner suggestions. 
 
c. “Who is CHIPAC” Resource. Mejia brought before the Executive Subcommittee a 
one-page resource to introduce the CHIPAC, its charge, and current membership to 
the incoming gubernatorial administration. The goals for such a resource are to 
celebrate recent developments in Virginia’s CHIP (FAMIS) program, highlight 
CHIPAC’s advisory role, and emphasize opportunities in children’s health coverage. 
 
III. 
Planning for December 11, 2025 Full Committee Meeting (all-virtual). The proposed 
agenda will include: 
1) CHIPAC Business  
a. Review/approval of minutes from previous Full Committee meeting 
b. Membership and leadership updates. Mejia’s two-year term as Chair began in 
December 2023. There is a two consecutive term limit. December’s meeting will 
need to include a vote. 
c. “Who is CHIPAC” Resource 
2) Presentations. Based on discussions in prior full Committee meetings, desired 
topics for upcoming meetings include relevant updates to eligibility processes 
following the 2024 Eligibility Study, immunization policy changes (if applicable), 
availability of local resource navigation/guides, and Virginia’s Title V Needs 
Assessment and subsequent state plan changes. Additionally, the CHIPAC would be 
interested in examining points of cohesion with the Beneficiary Advisory Committee 
(formerly Medicaid Member Advisory Committee), and children’s enrollment and 
utilization trends following the Medicaid Continuous Coverage Unwinding. 
3) Committee Discussion.  
4) Post-award Forum for FAMIS MOMS, FAMIS Select, and Postpartum Extension 
1115 Demonstration Waiver. Virginia operates FAMIS MOMS, FAMIS Select, and its 
12-month postpartum coverage extension under federal 1115 demonstration 
authority. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requires that 
states give opportunity for ongoing public comment via “Post-Award Forum” for 1115 
demonstrations. Since CHIPAC meetings already adhere to public meeting 
requirements and offer opportunity for public comment, DMAS will incorporate this 
into December meetings (separate from the regular CHIPAC public comment). 
5) Public Comment.  
 
IV. 
Public Comment 
Mejia invited public comment. LeVar Bowers commented “No Comments, Great 
Meeting!”. The meeting adjourned at 10:35am.
