STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\40428\Minutes_DMAS_40428_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Minutes Draft 
 
Name of Meeting:  
 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board  
Date of Meeting: 
 
 
 
June 12, 2025 
Length of Meeting:  
 
 
2 hours and 7 minutes 
 
       
Location of Meeting: 
 
 
DMAS Board Room 102 
 
 
Members Present: 
Rachel Cain, PharmD, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jack Weisskohl, NP  
Michele Thomas, PharmD 
Melissa Chouinard, MD 
Wendy Nash, PharmD 
Elizabeth Krieger, MD 
Brian Trentler, RPh 
Seth Brant, MD 
Denise Lowe, PharmD 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                         
Members Not Present: 
Elizabeth Gaughan, MD, Vice-Chair 
Denese Gomes, NP 
 
DMAS Attendees: 
Lisa Price-Stevens, MD, MPH, MBA, FACP, CHIE, Chief Medical Officer 
JoeMichael Fusco, PharmD, Pharmacy Manager  
Caitlin Pelletier, Operations Lead for Finance 
 
Contractors:    
David D’Amico, PharmD, Director, Clinical Account Services, Prime Therapeutics 
Nancy Eldin, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Matthew Estes, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Jeni Hodzic, CPhT, Account Manager Senior, Prime Therapeutics 
 
 
Visitors: 
Brad Burmeister 
Melissa McDonnell 
Bill Tassone 
Kristie Bryerton 
Gabrielle Williams 
Mark Stephens 
Joe Kupiec 
Debbie Jordan 
David Large


--- Page 2 ---
 
2 
 
Call to Order and Introductions 
 
Dr. Cain welcomed and thanked everyone for attending the DUR meeting.  
 
Dr. Cain called the meeting to order at 1:05 pm. Dr. Michele Thomas motioned to start 
the meeting and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion.  
 
Minutes – March 13, 2025 
 
Dr. Krieger motioned to approve the March 13, 2025 minutes as submitted. Dr. Thomas 
seconded the motion.  
 
Review and vote on DUR By-Laws 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the by-laws, which were also reviewed at the March 13, 2025 
meeting.  Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the by-laws as submitted.  Dr. Krieger 
seconded the motion. 
 
Topics for Discussion 
 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines - The DUR Board reviewed 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines reports for FFS and MCOs.  The DUR 
Board requested that DMAS work together with the MCOs to provide interventions 
through lettering or MTM services for members that had ICD10 codes for an overdose 
event without naloxone having been filled in the previous two years. The board also 
requested that the five-year trend charts have vertical lines added to show certain dates 
that previous interventions were implemented.  
 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics - The DUR Board reviewed Concurrent 
Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics reports for FFS and MCOs. ICD-10 data was also 
included for all FFS members currently receiving an opioid and an antipsychotic. 
 
Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines and Antipsychotics - The DUR Board 
reviewed Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines and Antipsychotics reports for FFS and 
MCOs. ICD-10 data was also included for all FFS members currently receiving an opioid 
and an antipsychotic. 
 
Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids - The DUR Board 
reviewed Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids reports for 
FFS and MCOs. The DUR Board requested that the five-year trend charts have vertical 
lines added to show certain dates that previous interventions were implemented. 


--- Page 3 ---
 
3 
 
 
Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist (GLP-1 RA) Utilization – The DUR Board 
reviewed Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist Utilization reports for FFS and 
MCOs, at the suggestion of the P&T Committee. The reports included a breakdown of 
member adherence to therapy for GLP-1 RA drugs for weight loss and for diabetes. The 
DUR Board requested that the factors considered for adherence be included alongside 
the reports.  
 
Reports 
 
ProDUR 
 
The DUR Board reviewed and discussed the ProDUR reports for the previous  
quarter. The DUR Board reviewed the ProDUR Top Encounters by Problem Type –
Severity 1, Severity 2 and Severity 3 reports. 
 
RetroDUR 
 
I. 
Recent RetroDUR Activity 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the Recent RetroDUR Activity reports. This included  
the RetroDUR activity response page along with the RetroDUR letter. 
 
II. 
RetroDUR Criteria Estimates 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the Criteria Exception Estimates Reports. The 
reports were broken down to the Top 40 Criteria Exception Estimates by 
Members and the Top 40 Criteria Exception Estimates by Total Payment 
Amount for FFS and each individual MCO plan. 
 
Utilization Analysis 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the Utilization Analysis reports. The board had previously 
requested to identify and label the preferred and non-preferred drugs on the Top 25 Drugs 
Ranked reports. Preferred drugs were shown in red. 
 
New Drugs  
 
The DUR Board reviewed eight physician administered drugs: Abecma® (idecabtagene 
vicleucel), Aucatzyl® (obecabtagene autoleucel), Breyanzi® (lisocabtagene maraleucel), 


--- Page 4 ---
 
4 
 
Carvykti® 
(ciltacabtagene 
autoleucel), 
Kymriah® 
(tisagenlecleucel), 
Tecartus® 
(brexucabtagene autoleucel), Tecelra® (afamitresgene autoleucel), and Yescarta® 
(axicabtagene ciloleucel). The Impact Reports and the report for the utilization of these 
new drugs for FFS and MCOs were reviewed. The DUR Board questioned whether 
mention of REMS programs for these new drugs was relevant in the clinical criteria, 
however it was determined that this language should remain in the criteria as the REMS 
programs are still active for these drugs.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Abecma®.  Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria 
with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Nash seconded the motion.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Aucatzyl®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant, modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections, and requiring members with Philadelphia 
chromosome-positive disease to try and fail two different tyrosine kinase inhibitors.  Dr. 
Krieger motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. 
Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Breyanzi®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections.  The board also proposed the criteria be updated to 
state that members that have previously received anti-CD19 therapy and have residual 
tumor activity should not be excluded from treatment. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve 
the clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the 
motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Carvykti®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections. Dr. Nash motioned to approve the clinical criteria with 
the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Kymriah®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 


--- Page 5 ---
 
5 
 
screened” for listed viral infections. Dr. Nash motioned to approve the clinical criteria with 
the aforementioned changes and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Tecartus®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria 
with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Tecelra®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria 
with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Yescarta®. Updates to the criteria 
proposed by the board included: excluding members that are pregnant and modifying 
language regarding viral screening from “member has been screened” to “member will be 
screened” for listed viral infections. The board also proposed the criteria be updated to 
state that members that have previously received anti-CD19 therapy and have residual 
tumor activity should not be excluded from treatment. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve 
the clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the 
motion. 
 
DUR Quarterly Newsletter – The March 2025 DUR Quarterly Newsletter was available 
in the DUR binder for review. 
 
Prime Therapeutics Pipeline – The DUR Board reviewed four pipeline drugs: 
brensocatib, dordaviprone, rilzabrutinib, and vatiquinone. 
 
Public Comment – Dr. Cain opened the meeting for public comment. Dr. Cain also 
mentioned that the DUR Board has two vacancies.  
 
Next DUR Meetings 
                        
 
 
 
 
• September 11, 2025 
• December 11, 2025 
 
 
Dr. Chouinard motioned to adjourn the meeting. Dr. Cain seconded the motion.  
Meeting adjourned at 3:12 pm.
