STATE: Virginia
URL: https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/GetFile.cfm?File=Meeting\64\42685\Minutes_DMAS_42685_v1.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf;charset=UTF-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://townhall.virginia.gov/l/Meetings.cfm?AgencyNumber=602&time=Past

--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Minutes Draft 
 
 
Name of Meeting:  
 
 
Drug Utilization Review Board  
Date of Meeting: 
 
 
 
March 12, 2026 
Length of Meeting:  
 
 
3 hours 
 
       
Location of Meeting: 
 
 
DMAS Board Room 102 
 
 
Members Present: 
Rachel Cain, PharmD, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Gaughan, MD, Vice-Chair 
Brian Trentler, RPh 
Elizabeth Krieger, MD 
Jack Weisskohl, NP  
Melissa Chouinard, MD 
Michele Thomas, PharmD 
Tana Kaefer, PharmD 
Wendy Nash, PharmD 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                         
Members Not Present: 
Denese Gomes, NP 
Denise Lowe, PharmD 
Seth Brant, MD 
 
DMAS Attendees: 
Steve Ford, DMAS Agency Director  
Greg Barabell, MD, Chief Medical Officer 
JoeMichael Fusco, PharmD, Pharmacy Operations Manager 
Arielle Abbate, PharmD, Pharmacy Policy Analyst   
 
Contractors:    
David D’Amico, PharmD, Director, Clinical Account Services, Prime Therapeutics 
Nancy Eldin, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Matthew Estes, PharmD, Clinical Account Principal, Prime Therapeutics 
Jeni Hodzic, CPhT, Senior Account Management Specialist, Prime Therapeutics 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
2 
 
Visitors: 
 
 
 
Amanda Dawes 
Bill Eicholzer 
Bill Tassone  
Brad Burmeister 
Cordell R. Hayes, Jr.  
Debbie Jordan 
Devin Pence 
Diana Hudson    
Don Nopper 
Jessica Siler 
Joe Kupiec 
Laurie Mauthe 
Matt Sheffield 
Olaide A. 
Scott Tabot 
Call to Order and Introductions 
 
Dr. Rachel Cain welcomed and thanked everyone for attending the DUR meeting.  
 
Dr. Cain called the meeting to order at 1:00 pm. Dr. Michele Thomas motioned to start 
the meeting and Dr. Elizabeth Krieger seconded the motion.   
 
Dr. Cain introduced the new DMAS Agency Director: 
• Steve Ford 
 
Dr. Cain introduced the new DMAS Chief Medical Officer: 
• Greg Barabell, MD 
 
Dr. Cain introduced a new DUR Board Member: 
• Tana Kaefer, PharmD 
 
Minutes – December 11, 2025 
 
Dr. Melissa Chouinard motioned to approve the December 11, 2025 minutes as 
submitted. Dr. Thomas seconded the motion.  
 
Old Business 
• Sephience™ was removed from the agenda for this meeting and may be 
revisited later  
 
• Updates to the Blujepa® and Orlynvah™ clinical criteria: 
o The blood dyscrasia contraindication was removed from the package 
insert for Orlynvah™ and removed from the clinical criteria  
o Blujepa® has a new FDA approved indication of uncomplicated urogenital 
gonorrhea which was included in the clinical criteria 
o The Blujepa® and Orlynvah™ clinical criteria was approved by DMAS and 
went live on January 22, 2026 


--- Page 3 ---
3 
 
DUR By-Laws 
 
The DUR Board voted to approve revisions to the DUR By‑Laws permitting two virtual 
meetings per year, alternating with in‑person meetings. It was noted that the June and 
December meetings are anticipated to be held virtually. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the DUR By-Laws and Dr. Chouinard seconded the motion.     
 
Scope of the DUR Board (Service Authorization (SA) Criteria and Verbiage)  
Dr. Nancy Eldin provided an overview of the DUR clinical criteria development process, 
outlining Prime’s multi‑team, multi‑level clinical review structure and its evidence‑based 
approach. 
 
New Drugs  
 
The DUR Board reviewed Aqvesme™ (mitapivat), Ensacove™ (ensartinib), Hyrnuo® 
(sevabertinib), Inluriyo™ (imlunestrant), Isturisa® (osilodrostat), Jascayd® 
(nerandomilast), Komzifti™ (ziftomenib), Lynkuet® (elinzanetant), Palsonify™ 
(paltusotine), Pyrukynd® (mitapivat), Recorlev® (levoketoconazole), Rhapsido® 
(remibrutinib), Vanrafia™ (atrasentan) and Voyxact® (sibeprenlimab-szsi). The DUR 
board also reviewed two physician administered drugs: Kebilidi™ (eladocagene 
exuparvovec-tneq) and Zevaskyn™ (prademagene zamikeracel). The Impact Reports 
and the report for the utilization of these drugs for Fee-For-Service (FFS) and Managed 
Care Organizations (MCOs) were reviewed.     
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Ensacove™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Elizabeth Gaughan seconded the motion.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Hyrnuo®. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Inluriyo™. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Isturisa®. Dr. Thomas motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Cain seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Jascayd®. The Board proposed 
removing pathologist and radiologist from the prescriber specialty language in question 
one. Dr. Krieger motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the aforementioned 
changes and Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion.   
 


--- Page 4 ---
4 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Komzifti™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Lynkuet® and voted to table further 
consideration pending a comprehensive review of this therapeutic class and discussion 
regarding the appropriateness of service authorization for treatments of menopausal 
vasomotor symptoms. Dr. Gaughan motioned to table the criteria, and Dr. Thomas 
seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Palsonify™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Pyrukynd®. The Board proposed to 
remove hematologist from prescriber specialty language in question one. The Board 
proposed revising question three by removing the detailed PKLR variant definition and 
updating the question to read, “Does the member have a confirmed diagnosis of 
pyruvate kinase deficiency (PKD) based on genetic testing?”. The Board proposed to 
remove question four, “It is confirmed that the member is NOT homozygous for the 
c.1436G>A (p.R479H) variant?” and question five, “It is confirmed that the member 
does NOT have 2 non-missense variants (without the presence of another missense 
variant) in the PKLR gene?”. The Board proposed to add a new question, “Has the 
member had a prior bone marrow or stem cell transplant?”. The Board also proposed 
updating the hepatic impairment criterion to read, “Does the member have moderate to 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C)?”. The Board requested updating 
the first renewal criterion to read, “Does the member continue to meet the above criteria 
(questions 1 through 6)?”. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the 
aforementioned changes and Dr. Chouinard seconded the motion.    
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Recorlev®. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Cain seconded the motion. 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Rhapsido®. The Board proposed to 
remove question four, “Has the prescriber assessed whether the member is currently 
taking any medications known to trigger or exacerbate urticaria (e.g., NSAIDs) and 
taken steps to mitigate this risk?” and question five, “Does the member have one of the 
following: a.) An inadequate response to ≥ 2-week trial of ≥ 1 second-generation H1-
antihistamine (e.g. cetirizine, levocetirizine, fexofenadine, loratadine, desloratadine) 
taken daily at the maximal tolerated dose (up to 4 times the standard daily dose); OR 
b.) Does the member have a documented contraindication, hypersensitivity, or 
intolerance that prevents the use of a second‑generation H1‑antihistamine?”. The Board 


--- Page 5 ---
5 
 
also proposed updating the hepatic impairment criterion to read, “Does the member 
have mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B or C)?”. The 
Board requested updating the first renewal criterion to read, “Does the member continue 
to meet the above criteria (questions 1 through 5)?”. Dr. Chouinard motioned to approve 
the clinical criteria with the aforementioned changes and Dr. Thomas seconded the 
motion.    
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Vanrafia™. The Board proposed to 
remove question eight, “If the member is of reproductive potential, do they have a 
confirmed negative pregnancy test before initiation of Vanrafia?”. The Board proposed 
updating the hepatic impairment criterion to read, “Does the member have severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C)?”. The Board also requested updating the first 
renewal criterion to read, “Does the member continue to meet the above criteria 
(questions 1 through 7)?”. Jack Weisskohl motioned to approve the clinical criteria with 
the aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion.     
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Voyxact®. The Board proposed to 
remove question eight, “If the member is of reproductive potential, do they have a 
confirmed negative pregnancy test before initiation of Vanrafia?”. The Board proposed 
updating the hepatic impairment criterion to read, “Does the member have severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C)?”. The Board also requested updating the first 
renewal criterion to read, “Does the member continue to meet the above criteria 
(questions 1 through 7)?”. Dr. Thomas motioned to approve the clinical criteria with the 
aforementioned changes and Dr. Krieger seconded the motion.     
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Kebilidi™. Dr. Krieger motioned to 
approve the clinical criteria and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion.  
 
The DUR Board reviewed the clinical criteria for Zevaskyn™. The Board proposed 
clarifying the renewal criteria to explicitly allow continued treatment for members who 
develop a new wound or experience expansion of a previously treated wound. The 
accompanying note was revised to provide additional clarification and ensure consistent 
interpretation of the renewal criteria. Dr. Krieger motioned to approve the clinical criteria 
and Dr. Thomas seconded the motion.   
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 6 ---
6 
 
Topics for Discussion  
 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines – The DUR Board reviewed 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Benzodiazepines reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-
year trend report was provided with bullet points showing interventions over the past 
five years. Claims data, diagnosis codes, and overdose information were reviewed for 
all FFS members included in the report.  
 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics – The DUR Board reviewed 
Concurrent Use of Opioids and Antipsychotics reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-year 
trend report was provided with bullet points showing interventions over the past five 
years. Claims data, diagnosis codes, and overdose information were reviewed for all 
FFS members included in the report. 
 
Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines and Antipsychotics – The DUR Board 
reviewed Overlaps in Opioids, Benzodiazepines and Antipsychotics reports for FFS and 
MCOs. A five-year trend report was provided with bullet points showing interventions 
over the past five years. Claims data, diagnosis codes, and overdose information were 
reviewed for all FFS members included in the report. The DUR Board requested that the 
opioid reports also include an analysis of members receiving hospice or palliative care 
and explore opportunities to compare Virginia data from these reports with data from 
other states.    
 
Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids – The DUR 
Board reviewed Naloxone and Buprenorphine Utilization for Members on Opioids 
reports for FFS and MCOs. A five-year trend report was provided with bullet points 
showing interventions over the past five years.  
 
Antipsychotic Medications in Children – The DUR Board reviewed Antipsychotic 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A behavioral therapies summary 
was included, along with ICD-10 data for the five youngest FFS members, and an 
analysis of members in foster care. A five-year trend report was provided with bullet 
points showing interventions over the past five years.  
 
Antidepressant Medications in Children – The DUR Board reviewed Antidepressant 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A behavioral therapies summary 
was included, along with ICD-10 data for the five youngest FFS members, and an 
analysis of members in foster care. A five-year trend report was provided with bullet 
points showing interventions over the past five years. 
 


--- Page 7 ---
7 
 
Mood Stabilizer Medications in Children – The DUR Board reviewed Mood Stabilizer 
Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A behavioral therapies summary 
was included, along with ICD-10 data for the five youngest FFS members, and an 
analysis of members in foster care. A five-year trend report was provided with bullet 
points showing interventions over the past five years. 
 
Anti-Anxiety or Sedative Medications in Children – The DUR Board reviewed the 
new Anti-Anxiety or Sedative Medications in Children reports for FFS and MCOs. A 
behavioral therapies summary was included, along with ICD-10 data for the five 
youngest FFS members, and an analysis of members in foster care. A five-year trend 
report was provided with bullet points showing interventions over the past five years. 
DMAS will review the Virginia Medicaid Behavioral Health Services List to ensure the 
services included are appropriate and aligned with program intent.  
 
Overlaps in Antipsychotics, Antidepressants, Mood Stabilizers and Anti-Anxiety 
or Sedatives in Children – The DUR Board reviewed Overlaps in Antipsychotics, 
Antidepressants, Mood Stabilizers and Anti-Anxiety or Sedatives in Children reports for 
FFS and MCOs. A behavioral therapies summary was included, along with ICD-10 data 
for the five youngest FFS members, and an analysis of members in foster care. A five-
year trend report was provided with bullet points showing interventions over the past 
five years. 
 
DUR Quarterly Newsletter - The June 2025, September 2025 and December 2025 
DUR Quarterly Newsletters were available in the DUR binder for review. 
 
Prime Therapeutics Pipeline – The DUR Board reviewed seven pipeline drugs: 
relacorilant oral, tolebrutinib oral, navepegritide (TransCon CNP) sc, troriluzole oral, 
idebenone oral, sonrotoclax oral and vepdegestrant oral.   
 
Reports  
 
ProDUR 
 
The DUR Board reviewed and discussed the ProDUR reports. The DUR Board 
reviewed the ProDUR Top Encounters by Problem Type – Severity 1, Severity 2 and 
Severity 3 reports.  
 
 
 
 


--- Page 8 ---
8 
 
RetroDUR 
 
I. 
Recent RetroDUR Activity 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the Recent RetroDUR Activity reports. This included 
the RetroDUR activity response page along with the RetroDUR letters. The DUR 
Board expressed interest in evaluating the utilization of continuous glucose 
monitors (CGMs) in relation to insulin therapy. The Board also expressed interest 
in developing criteria for a future RetroDUR initiative focused on sodium‑glucose 
cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors in the chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
population. In addition, the Board requested a reevaluation and rerun of criteria 
examining opioid use in the absence of naloxone. The Board further expressed 
interest in exploring alternative prescriber communication strategies beyond 
traditional letters, including electronic communications, and in assessing 
opportunities to enhance written outreach to better align with a provider‑detailing 
approach. Further research will be conducted.  
 
II. 
RetroDUR Criteria Estimates 
 
The Criteria Exception Estimates Reports were available in the DUR binder for 
review. The reports were broken down to the Top 40 Criteria Exception 
Estimates by Members and the Top 40 Criteria Exception Estimates by Total 
Payment Amount for FFS and each individual MCO plan.  
 
Utilization Analysis 
 
The DUR Board reviewed the Utilization Analysis reports. The board had previously 
requested to identify and label the preferred and non-preferred drugs on the Top 25 
Drugs Ranked reports. Preferred drugs were shown in red and non-preferred drugs 
were shown in green. 
 
Next DUR Meetings 
                        
 
 
 
 
• June 11, 2026  
• September 10, 2026  
• December 10, 2026 
 
 
Dr. Thomas motioned to adjourn the meeting. Dr. Gaughan seconded the motion.  
 
Meeting adjourned at 4:00 pm
