Show glossary
Search for terms
Hide glossary

Study record managers: refer to the Data Element Definitions if submitting registration or results information.

Accepts healthy volunteers
Active comparator arm
Adverse event
Age or age group
All-cause mortality
Allocation
Arm
Arm type
Baseline characteristics
Canceled submission
Certain agreements
Certification
Certification/extension first posted
Certification/extension first submitted
Certification/extension first submitted that met QC criteria
Clinical study
Clinical trial
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier (NCT number)
Collaborator
Condition/disease
Contact
Cross-over assignment
Data Monitoring Committee (DMC)
Early Phase 1 (formerly listed as Phase 0)
Eligibility criteria
Enrollment
Exclusion criteria
Expanded access
Expanded access status
Expanded access type
Experimental arm
Extension request
Facility name
Factorial assignment
FDAAA 801 Violations
First posted
First submitted
First submitted that met QC criteria
Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, Section 801 (FDAAA 801)
Funder type
Gender-based eligibility
Group/cohort
Human subjects protection review board
Inclusion criteria
Informed consent
Informed consent form (ICF)
Intervention model
Intervention/treatment
Interventional study (clinical trial)
Investigator
Last update posted
Last update submitted
Last update submitted that met QC criteria
Last verified
Location
Location countries
Masking
NCT number
No intervention arm
Observational study
Observational study model
Other adverse event
Other study IDs
Other terms
Outcome measure
Parallel assignment
Participant flow
Patient registry
Phase
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Phase 4
Phase Not Applicable
Placebo
Placebo comparator arm
Primary completion date
Primary outcome measure
Primary purpose
Principal investigator (PI)
Protocol
Quality control (QC) review
Randomized allocation
Recruitment status
Registration
Removed location countries
Reporting group
Responsible party
Results database
Results delayed
Results first posted
Results first posted with QC comments
Results first submitted
Results first submitted that met QC criteria
Results returned after quality control review
Results submitted to ClinicalTrials.gov
Secondary outcome measure
Serious adverse event
Sex
Sham comparator arm
Single group assignment
Sort studies by
Sponsor
Statistical analysis plan (SAP)
Status
Study completion date
Study design
Study documents
Study IDs
Study record
Study registry
Study results
Study start date
Study type
Submitted date
Title
Title acronym
Type of intervention
U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
Unknown

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know
Skip to main page content
PRS Login
Find Studies
Study Basics
Submit Studies
Data and API
Policy
About
My Saved Studies (0)
HomeSearch ResultsStudy Record

The U.S. government does not review or approve the safety and science of all studies listed on this website.

Read our full disclaimer for details.

Recruiting
A Study of SKB264 in Combination With Osimertinib Versus Osimertinib in Patients With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT06670196
Sponsor Sichuan Kelun-Biotech Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Information provided by Sichuan Kelun-Biotech Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Responsible Party)
Last Update Posted 2026-05-08
Download
Save
Expand all content
Collapse all content
Study DetailsResearcher ViewNo Results PostedRecord History
On this page
Study Overview
Contacts and Locations
Participation Criteria
Study Plan
Collaborators and Investigators
Study Record Dates
More Information
Study Overview
Brief Summary
The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SKB264 in combination with osimertinib as first-Line treatment for patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, locally advanced or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Detailed Description
This is a randomized, open-Label, multicenter, Phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SKB264 in combination with osimertinib versus osimertinib alone as first-line treatment for patients with EGFR mutations, locally advanced or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Official Title
A Randomized, Open-Label, Multicenter, Phase III Clinical Study of SKB264 in Combination With Osimertinib Versus Osimertinib Alone as First-Line Treatment for Patients With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Conditions 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Intervention / Treatment 
Drug: SKB264
Drug: Osimertinib
Other Study ID Numbers 
SKB264-Ⅲ-15
Study Start (Actual) 
2024-11-27
Primary Completion (Estimated) 
2027-05
Study Completion (Estimated) 
2027-07
Enrollment (Estimated) 
420
Study Type 
Interventional
Phase 
Phase 3
Resource links provided by the National Library of Medicine 
Drug Information available for:  Osimertinib 
FDA Drug and Device Resources
Contacts and Locations

This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 

Name: Xiaoping Jin PhD

Phone Number: 86-028-67255165

Email: jinxp@kelun.com

This study has 2 locations
China
Guangdong Locations
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China, 510060

Not yet recruiting

Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center

Guangzhou, Guangdong, China, 510060

Recruiting

Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center

Click to view interactive map
Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description

Inclusion Criteria:

Aged ≥18 years to ≤75 years at the time of signing the informed consent form (ICF), regardless of gender.
Histologically or cytologically confirmed non-squamous NSCLC that is locally advanced (stage IIIB/IIIC) or metastatic (stage IV) non-squamous NSCLC not eligible to radical surgery and/or radical radiotherapy.
No prior systemic anti-tumor therapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC.
Histologically or cytologically confirmed EGFR-sensitive mutations.
Tumor tissue samples obtained at or after the diagnosis of locally advanced or metastatic tumor are eligible.
At least one target lesion assessed by the investigator based on RECIST v1.1.
ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 within 7 days prior to randomization.
Life expectancy ≥ 12 weeks.
Adequate organ and bone marrow function.

Exclusion Criteria:

Histologically or cytologically confirmed presence of small cell lung cancer, neuroendocrine carcinoma, and carcinosarcoma components or squamous cell carcinoma components of more than 10%.
Subjects who have received prior systemic anti-tumor therapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC.

Subjects who have received any of the following therapies (including the adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy):

Targeted TROP2 therapy;
Any drug therapy that targets topoisomerase I, including antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs).
Subjects with known meningeal metastases, brainstem metastases, spinal cord metastases and/or compression, active or central nervous system (CNS) metastase.
Other malignancies within 3 years prior to randomization.
Clinically significant abnormalities found on resting electrocardiogram (ECG)
Presence of any of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases or cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk factors.
History of interstitial lung disease (ILD), drug-induced ILD, history of non-infectious pneumonitis requiring steroid treatment, current ILD or non-infectious pneumonitis.
Clinically severe lung injuries caused by lung diseases.
Unresolved toxicities from previous anti-tumor therapy to ≤ Grade 1 (based on NCI CTCAE v5.0) or the level specified in the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Subjects who have received systemic corticosteroids > 10 mg/day of prednisone or other immunosuppressive agents within 2 weeks prior to randomization.
Known active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Known history of allogeneic organ transplant and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
Presence of active hepatitis B or hepatitis C.
Positive result of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test or history of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS); known active syphilis infection.
Known allergy to osimertinib, SKB264 or any of their components (including but not limited to polysorbate-20), history of severe hypersensitivity to other biologics.
Vaccination with live vaccines within 30 days prior to randomization, or planned vaccination with live vaccines during the study.
Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Presence of local or systemic diseases caused by non-malignancies, or diseases or symptoms secondary to tumors.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 75 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan

This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Interventional Model Description: Participants will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to one of two intervention groups.
Masking  : None (Open Label)

Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: SKB264+Osimertinib
Participants will receive SKB264 on Day 1 and Day 15 of each 4-week cycle, Osimertinib once-daily for each 4-week cycle.
	Drug: SKB264

4mg/kg, intravenous (IV) infusion

Drug: Osimertinib

80mg, QD


Active Comparator: Osimertinib
Participants will receive Osimertinib once-daily for each 4-week cycle.
	Drug: Osimertinib

80mg, QD

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Progression Free Survival (PFS) assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR)	PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall Survival (OS)	OS is defined as the time from randomization until the date of death due to any cause.	Randomization up to approximately 49 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) assessed by Investigator	PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on investigator or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR)	ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve complete response(CR) or partial response (PR), as assessed by BICR/investigator per RECIST 1.1	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Disease control rate (DCR)	DCR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve CR, PR or stable disease (SD), as assessed by BICR/ investigator per RECIST 1.1	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Duration of Response (DoR)	DoR is defined as the time from the date of first documented CR or PR until date of documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1, as assessed by BICR/investigator or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Time to Response (TTR)	TTR is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the first documentation of CR or PR as assessed by BICR/investigator per RECIST 1.1.	Randomization up to approximately 36 months
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Sichuan Kelun-Biotech Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2024-10-31
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2024-10-31
First Posted 
2024-11-01
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2026-05-05
Last Update Posted 
2026-05-08
Last Verified 
2026-05
More Information
Record History
Expand all / Collapse all
Terms related to this study
Keywords Provided by Sichuan Kelun-Biotech Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
SKB264
NSCLC
Additional Relevant MeSH Terms
Carcinoma, Bronchogenic
Bronchial Neoplasms
Lung Neoplasms
Respiratory Tract Neoplasms
Thoracic Neoplasms
Neoplasms by Site
Neoplasms
Lung Diseases
Respiratory Tract Diseases
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
osimertinib
Drug and device information, study documents, and helpful links
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Drug Product
No
Studies a U.S. FDA-Regulated Device Product
No
About
About ClinicalTrials.gov
Release Notes
Site Map
Help
Give us feedback
Glossary
Customer Support
Legal
Disclaimer
Terms and Conditions
National Library of Medicine
8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894

ClinicalTrials.gov

An official website of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Library of Medicine, and National Center for Biotechnology Information.

About HHS
About NIH
About NLM
About NCBI
Accessibility support
FOIA requests
No FEAR Act Data
Office of the Inspector General
Privacy policy
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Looking for U.S. government information and services?Visit USA.gov

Revision: v3.5.3