STATE: Nevada
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://www.nevadamedicaid.nv.gov/programs/rates/
SEED_URL: https://dhcfp.nv.gov/boards/cpt/p_tmain/
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Fee Schedules (Rates)
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Rates

Rates 
Skip Nav
NV.gov
State Agencies
State Jobs
ADA Assistance
About 
Programs 
Providers 
Members 
Public Notices 
Resources 
Boards/Committees 
Contact Us 
H.R.1 
State Agencies
State Jobs
ADA Assistance
Home
/ 
Programs
/ 
Rates
Rates 
Programs 
Programs 
All-Payer Claims Database (APCD) 
Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) 
Behavioral Health Services 
Certified Community Behavioral Health Centers 
Children's Behavioral Health 
Community Paramedicine 
Dental Services 
Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNP) 
Durable Medical Equipment (DME) 
EPSDT / Healthy Kids 
Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC) 
Health Insurance for Work Advancement (HIWA) 
Health Insurance Premium Program (HIPP) 
Housing & Support Services 
Indian Health Program 
Justice Involved Reentry Program 
Long Term Services & Support 
Medicaid Estate Recovery 
Minimum Data Set (MDS) 
Nevada Check Up 
Nevada Market Stabilization Program 
Nevada Private Hospital Assessment & Payment Program 
NGA - Youth Behavioral Health in NV 
Pharmacy Services 
Program Research & Development 
Quality Assurance 
Rates 
School Health Access Resource Center 
Supplemental Reimbursement 
Transportation Services 
Waivers 
Overview 
The Rate Analysis and Development (RAD) team is responsible for Letters of Agreement (LOA); rate appeals, policies, reviews, studies, and scheduled updates; and the Quadrennial Rate Reviews as required by Assembly Bill 108 (AB 108) passed in the 2017 Nevada Legislative Session and the Quadrennial Rate Reviews as required by NRS 422.2704. The RAD team is also responsible for fiscal impact analyses associated with the above processes as well as legislative, policy, and regulatory changes to the Nevada Medicaid program. 
Rate Analysis and Development Fact Sheet 
Nevada Medicaid administers the program with provisions of the Nevada Medicaid State Plan, Titles XI and XIX for the Social Security Act, all applicable Federal regulations and other official issuance of the Department.  Methods and standards used to determine rates for inpatient and outpatient services are located in the State Plan under Attachments 4.19 A through E. 
Annual Code Update 
Annual New Code Update Process 
2022 Annual Code Update Information 
Annual Physician Rate Reports (NRS 422.2712) 
The Department of Health and Human Services provides the following reports detailing the Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) rate of reimbursement for physicians which is provided on a Fee for Service basis and which is lower than the rate provided on the current Medicare fee schedule for care and services provided by physicians. 
SB 278 Letter 
2025 Facility-NonFacility Report 
2025 Laboratory Report 
2025 Durable Medical Equipment Report 
Fee Schedule Search 
Nevada Medicaid has a new feature on the Nevada Medicaid Provider Portal website under the Provider “Home” page (EVS).  The new feature will allow Providers to not only view fee schedules, but also the ability to verify member eligibility, search for claims, payment information and Remittance Advices.  For modifier or anesthesia base units, see the appropriate links below. Please refer to the appropriate Medicaid policy to fully determine coverage as well as any coverage limitations. Medicaid policy takes precedence over any code and rate listed here for a particular provider type. 
Fee Schedule Search 
Web Portal User Manual 
Anesthesiology Unit Values - 2023 
Nevada Medicaid Modifier Listing 
Fee Schedules 
The fee schedules found here are updated on an annual basis, sometimes more frequently.  Information regarding the annual new code update may be found on this website. The information contained in these schedules is made available to provide information and is not a guarantee by the State or the Department or its employees as to the present accuracy of the information contained herein.   
Fee-for-Service xls Fee Schedules 
Physician Administered Drug (PAD) Pricing Reimbursement Schedules 
Physician Administered Drug Schedule 
Managed Care 
The information contained in these schedules is made available to provide information and is not a guarantee by the State or the Department or its employees as to the present accuracy of the information contained herein. 
*All Schedules listed below are noted to be in a pending state and are subject to change. 
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2018 
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2019 
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2020 
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2021   
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2022   
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2023   
Managed Care Capitation Rates 2024   
CMS Managed Care Rate Development Guide    
Capitation Rate and Development Certification Dental 2023 
Capitation Rate and Development Certification Dental 2024 
CY 2025 Nevada DBA Rate Certification 
CY 2025 Nevada MCO Rate Certification 
CY 2026 Nevada DBA Rate Certification 
CY 2026 Nevada MCO Rate Certification 
IID Waiver Rate Study 
The Cost Study for the Waiver for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities and Related Conditions. In July 2020, a cost study for the Waiver for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (IDD) and Related Conditions was undertaken by Burns & Associates, a Division of Health Management Associates. During March and April, providers were surveyed about costs related to the services they provide and cost related to their employees and the benefits that are offered to their employees. 88 providers were sent surveys. 16 returned responses. This accounted for 18.2% of the provider community and 47% of all claims by payment for IDD Waiver services. The proposed rates and the rates presentation are below. Please note that rate changes would need to be approved by the legislature and that a completed rate study does not guarantee a rate increase.  
Overview of Proposed Rates 
Proposed Rate Models 
Nursing Facilities 
Rates are acuity-adjusted on a quarterly basis.  Reimbursement methodology may be found in the State Plan, Attachment 4.19-D. If you need information regarding Nursing Facility rates other than what is provided below, please contact Rates@nvha.nv.gov.     
Nursing Facility Rates 
Routine Cost Limitation for Hospital Based Skilled Nursing  
Quadrennial Rate Reviews 
Quadrennial Rate Reviews - NV Legislative Overview 
NVHA – Quadrennial Rate Reviews 
State Plan Amendments (SPA) - Rates 
When Nevada Medicaid is planning to make a change to its rate methodologies, program policies or operational approach, a State Plan Amendment (SPA) with the proposed changes is sent to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for review and approval.  Workshops and public hearings are held prior to submitting a SPA to CMS allowing providers and stakeholders the opportunity to provide public comment. Additional information related to rate changes that were approved during the 2023 Legislative Session will be posted as it becomes available.   
Contact 
Please include the provider type you are inquiring about in any correspondence directed to the inbox(es) to ensure a prompt response. All Quadrennial Rate Review Inquiries or correspondence should be sent to the QRR email below. 
rates@nvha.nv.gov 
qrr@nvha.nv.gov 
Quick Links 
Fee for Service (FFS) Fee Schedules 
Quadrennial Rate Reviews 
Scroll to Top
Contact us 
The Official State of Nevada Website 
Copyright © 2026 State of Nevada - All Rights Reserved 
Privacy Policy 
ADA Technology And Accessibility Guidelines 
Web Style Standards 
ADA Assistance 
Nevada Digital Accessibility Website 
/ Last updated 04/14/2026
State Animal 
Desert Bighorn Sheep 
These agile climbers can scale steep, rocky cliffs with ease, helping them  evade predators.