STATE: Nevada
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://www.nevadamedicaid.nv.gov/resources/nevada-medicaid-update/
SEED_URL: https://dhcfp.nv.gov/boards/cpt/p_tmain/
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Get Medicaid Updates
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Email Notifications

Email Notifications 
Skip Nav
NV.gov
State Agencies
State Jobs
ADA Assistance
About 
Programs 
Providers 
Members 
Public Notices 
Resources 
Boards/Committees 
Contact Us 
H.R.1 
State Agencies
State Jobs
ADA Assistance
Home
/ 
Resources
/ 
Email Notifications
Get Updates 
Resources 
Resources 
Advance Directives 
Civil Rights 
Manuals 
Telephone Directory 
SURS Unit Contact 
Data and Records Requests 
Surveillance & Utilization Review (SUR) Unit 
Fair Hearings 
Rates 
Medicaid Operations Manual 
Email Notifications 
Nevada Medicaid Member News - Listserv 
All Payer Claims Database - Listserv 
Nevada Medicaid Update - Listserv 
Records Request 
Medicaid & Nevada Check Up (CHIP) State Plans 
Fact Sheets & Flyers 
Download the NV Medicaid App 
Electron Health Information Guidelines 
Update My Address 
Nevada Medicaid sends notifications over ListServ direct to your email regarding news, initiatives and public meetings. If you want to receive updates from Nevada Medicaid or its committees or boards, click on the subscription links below to subscribe. An email will be generated and you can simply select "Send." 
Member News 
This is for people interested in notifications regarding Medicaid membership, benefits and more. Here is the page where you can join. 
Nevada Health Authority 
Stakeholders interested in what the Nevada Health Authority is doing, and notifications can  click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Medicaid Partners - Help Keep Nevadans Insured 
Employers, churches, community groups and more are all part of the Nevada Medicaid partnership. You will receive notifications with important information that will help you keep Nevadans insured and healthy. To sign up,  click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
All Payer Claims Database 
This database collects information from insurers. Here is the page where you can join to receive notifications. 
Behavioral Health Providers and Support Staff 
Write "SUBSCRIBE BEHAVIORALHEALTH anonymous" in the body of the email that pops up when you click here . You will be added to the list and receive notifications regarding behavioral health. You can also send your request to Medicaid@nvha.nv.gov . 
Compare Care Data 
You will receive notifications regarding annual health publications including Personal Health Choices General Acute Care, Specialty Care, and Outpatient hospitals. The reports can be found at NevadaCompareCare.net . To sign up,  click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Dental 
You will receive email notifications for only dental-related topics from Nevada Medicaid. To sign up,  click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list 
Drug Use Review Board 
You will receive email notifications for only the Drug Utilization Review Board. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Nevada Medicaid Update (General Notifications) 
When you sign up for this list, you will receive surveys, press releases, web announcements, publications, fact sheets and other public notifications that are not related to the meetings, boards and committees below. Here is the page where you can join. 
Justice Involved Reentry Initiative 
You will receive email notifications for only the Medicaid Justice Involved Reentry Initiative. To sign up click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Managed Care: Housing Supports, Statewide MC & more 
You will receive notifications with important information regarding progress toward statewide managed care. To sign up,  click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Medical Care Advisory Committee 
You will receive email notifications for only the Medical Care Advisory Committee. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Medicaid Meetings 
You will receive email notifications regarding Medicaid only hearings, workshops and meetings including SPAs and waivers not related to the boards and committees below. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Medicaid Reinvestment Advisory Committee 
You will receive email notifications for only the Medicaid Reinvestment Advisory Committee. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Nursing 
You will receive email notifications for only Medicaid nursing facilities. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Patient Protection Commission (PPC) 
You will receive email notifications from the Patient Protection Commission.  In addition to receiving updates regarding Commission meeting and activities, you may receive information related to State efforts to improve patient health care access, quality and affordability. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Quality Collaborative 
You will receive email notifications from the Quality Collaborative team for hospitals and Managed Care Partners who are working to develop and implement value-based payment strategies. Meeting reminders, materials, learning resources and more will be sent. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
School Health Services 
You will receive email notifications for only the School Based Services. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Silver State Scripts Board 
You will receive email notifications for only the Silver State Scripts Board. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Tribal Consultations 
You will receive email notifications for only the Tribal Consultations. To sign up, click this link and send the email . You can unsubscribe at the bottom of any email that arrives from this list. 
Contact 
For issues related to the ListServ, please contact Nevada Medicaid Public Information Officer Ky Plaskon . 
Scroll to Top
Contact us 
The Official State of Nevada Website 
Copyright © 2026 State of Nevada - All Rights Reserved 
Privacy Policy 
ADA Technology And Accessibility Guidelines 
Web Style Standards 
ADA Assistance 
Nevada Digital Accessibility Website 
/ Last updated 04/16/2026
State Animal 
Desert Bighorn Sheep 
These agile climbers can scale steep, rocky cliffs with ease, helping them  evade predators.