STATE: West Virginia
URL: https://bms.wv.gov/media/39960/download?inline
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: same-page document linked from https://bms.wv.gov/pharmaceutical-and-therapeutics-pt-committee-meetings

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES 
Alex J. Mayer 
Cabinet Secretary 
Cynthia Beane, MSW, LCSW 
Commissioner 
 
 
 
350 Capitol Street, Room 251 • Charleston, West Virginia 25301 • 304-558-1700 • 304-558-1542 (fax) • dhhr.wv.gov 
Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics  
(P&T) 
Committee 
 
March 12, 2025 
 
 
Location: Virtual only   
Time: Executive Session 4:30pm – 5:00pm 
Time: Open Session 5:00pm – 5:30pm  
 
MINUTES 
 
 
Committee Members Present: 
Philip Galapon, MD FAAFP, Chair 
Chris Terpening, PharmD, PhD 
Charles Rohrbaugh, RPh 
Krista Capehart, PharmD 
Toni DiChiacchio, DNP  
Michael Cheshire, DO 
Scott Brown, RPh, Vice Chair  
David Gloss, MD   
Laura Davisson, MD 
 
 
Absent: 
John Bernabei, RPh (JJ) 
Brian Hardman, FNP-C 
Mitzi Payne, MD   
Schelley Schliesser, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
Office of Pharmacy Services Staff Present: 
Vicki Cunningham, RPh, Director 
Bill Hopkins, Operations Manager 
Doug Sorvig, Data Analyst 
Lori Moles, RPh, Appeals Pharmacist 
Gail Goodnight, RPh, Rebate Pharmacist 
Kristen Boustany, PharmD 
 
Change Healthcare/OptumRx Staff Present: 
Joseph Bergondo, PharmD 
Robert Capp, MD 
Paige Clayton, PharmD  
Chris Dolfi, PharmD  
 
Other Contract/State Staff Present: 
Priya Shah, PharmD, DUR Coordinator   
Angela Wowzuk, PharmD, RDTP Director 


--- Page 2 ---
P&T Committee Meeting  
March 12, 2025 
Page 2 
 
 
350 Capitol Street, Room 251 • Charleston, West Virginia 25301 • 304-558-1700 • 304-558-1542 (fax) • dhhr.wv.gov 
I. 
Call to Order 
Philip Galapon, Chairman, called the meeting to order at 5:04 PM.  
Welcome and Introductions 
Philip Galapon welcomed all meeting attendees to the committee meeting. Committee 
members, Bureau of Medical Services staff, and Change Healthcare/OptumRx staff 
introduced themselves. 
II. 
Housekeeping Items / Updates 
 
III. 
Public Comments 
Public comments for this meeting were only accepted in writing. Written statements 
were provided to State and Committee members for review prior to this meeting and are 
available to the public on the State’s website 
IV. New Business 
New Drug Reviews 
 Analgesics, Non-Narcotic, Short Acting  
 
 
 
Dr. Roberta Capp presented a therapeutic review of the drug Journavx. Several 
members of the Committee made inquiries about the published clinical trials, the 
recommended length of treatment for acute pain, and drug interactions. The 
recommendation from the Optum staff was to prefer Journavx.  
 
Philip Galapon stated his concerns regarding the clinical trials presented, since they 
only included treatment of post-surgical pain relief after abdominoplasty and 
bunionectomy. There was no data regarding effectiveness for patients who have 
suffered broken bones or blunt trauma. 
 
Scott Brown voiced his concern regarding the financial risk for the Medicaid program, 
especially if the drug is used longer than would be anticipated for acute pain. 
 
Charlie Rohrbaugh expressed a concern that Journavx could be prescribed for patients 
unaware they have hepatitis and suffer further liver damage. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
P&T Committee Meeting  
March 12, 2025 
Page 3 
 
 
350 Capitol Street, Room 251 • Charleston, West Virginia 25301 • 304-558-1700 • 304-558-1542 (fax) • dhhr.wv.gov 
Krista Capehart stated her concern regarding an interaction with oral contraceptives and 
unintended pregnancies that could occur.   
 
David Gloss made a motion to approve the recommendation for the new class: 
Analgesics, Non-Narcotic, Short Acting. The original motion was amended to add a 
provision that utilization data, including associated diagnoses and current procedural 
terminology (CPT) codes, be reported to the Committee for continual review, monitoring 
and oversight. Toni DiChiacchio made a motion to approve the amended motion and 
was seconded by Chris Terpening. All committee members were in favor and the 
amendment was approved.  
 
The newly amended motion was put to a vote; and with a split in the votes, Philip 
Galapon held for a roll call vote of members present:  
 
Philip Galapon - NO 
Chris Terpening - YES 
Charles Rohrbaugh - NO 
Krista Capehart - YES 
Toni DiChiacchio - YES  
Michael Cheshire - YES 
Scott Brown - NO 
David Gloss - YES  
Laura Davisson - YES 
 
With a tally of 6 YES to 3 NO votes, the motion carried and was approved as amended. 
 
V. 
Old Business 
 
VI. Other Business 
Scott Brown requested that his displeasure with Vertex be noted for working through 
legislative channels, instead of observing the normal process to have a product 
reviewed and preferred. He stated that it is not the way West Virginia P&T Committee 
members do their work.  
 
VII. Next Meeting  
The next P&T Committee Virtual Meeting is scheduled for April 23, 2025, from 3:30pm-
5:00pm.  
 
VIII. Adjournment  
The meeting was adjourned by the Committee at 5:22 PM.
