STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Jan%202019%20DUR%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: January 8, 2019
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1 
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday, January 8, 2019 
DRAFT pending approval at March Meeting 
DUR Board Members in Attendance: 
Nichole Boggs, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Kevin Borcher, RP 
Lynn Carlson, RP 
Shana Castillo, RP 
Eric Gall, RP 
Bruce Houghton, MD 
Susan Howard, MD 
Norman Kelley, MD 
Madeline Leiter, CU PharmD Candidate 
Charlie Moore, RP 
Marcia Mueting, RP 
Kirk Muffly, MD 
Phil Vuchetich, RP 
Robert Wergin, MD 
DUR Board members not in Attendance: 
Roger Mattson, RP 
David Randolph, RP 
Guests in Attendance: 
Jill Bot, RP Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Jenny Minchow, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Shannon Nelson, RP, WellCare of Nebraska (WC) 
Kevin Peterson, RP, Nebraska Total Care (NTC) 
Bernadette Ueda, RP, United Health Care (UHC) 
Public Members in Attendance: 
Melissa Laurie, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Sean Parker, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Kent Van De Mark CU PharmD Candidate 
Nancy Bell, Pfizer 
Ann Willet, Pfizer 
Lindsay Brescha UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Leslie Chudomelka UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Jaiyu Cui UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Feiyan Ding UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Yan Jin UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Jenna Ulffers UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Chao Wang UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Yike Wang UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Nakaisha Wiegert UNMC PharmD Candidate 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by DUR Director, Marcia Mueting. The Director noted that 
a copy of the Open Meeting Laws and the meeting materials were available. Public attendees were asked 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
to complete the sign-in sheet if they wished to be listed in the minutes as attending. Board members, 
guests and public attendees introduced themselves. 
II. 
Declaration of Any Conflict of Interest Changes 
No changes were declared. 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from Bob Wergin to approve the agenda as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Howard-yes, 
Kelley-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from November Meeting 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from Kevin Borcher to approve the minutes as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Howard-yes, 
Kelley-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
V. 
Update on Recommendations from November Meeting 
DUR Board members asked why the implementation of the recommendation was postponed until May 
regarding the edit to stop claims for long-acting opioids in patient who were opioid naïve. Jenny 
Minchow noted that she may be able to work out a faster timeline. 
VI. 
Retrospective DUR 
A. Current Profile Review 
1. Restricted Services (RS) 
Marcia Mueting reported that in Fee-For-Service (FFS) the criteria for restricted 
services review is patients utilizing 6 or more prescribers and 3 or more pharmacies 
in a month. No patients met the criteria in November or December. 
Bernadette Ueda shared that UHC patients are evaluated on a 9-3-3 basis where the 
patient is taking one of the 9 targeted medications, utilizing 3 or more pharmacies 
and 3 or more prescribers or the patient has a history of poisoning or overdose in the 
previous 180 days. In November, 29 patients met the criteria and were reviewed. 14 
of these patients were added to Restricted Services, 15 patients were removed from 
Restricted Services. In December, upon biennial review, 1 patient was evaluated, and 
it was determined that Restricted Services would continue. UHC has a total of 128 
patients in Restricted Services and all of them are enrolled in case management. 
Kevin Peterson explained that NTC patients are evaluated on the criteria of 6 or more 
prescribers and 3 or more pharmacies in a month, as well as a matrix which includes 
the number of emergency room visits and possible drug overdose. In November, 16 
patients met the criteria and were reviewed, 12 of whom were referred to case 
management, 4 were placed in Restricted Services and 1 patient was removed from 
Restricted Services. In December, 24 patients met the criteria for review, 18 were 
referred to case management and 6 were placed in Restricted Services. NTC has a 
total of 38 patients in Restricted Services. 
Shannon Nelson reported that WC patients are evaluated on the criteria of utilizing 3 
or more controlled substances, 3 or more prescribers and 3 or more pharmacies as 
well as patients who visit the emergency room 6 or more times or more than 3 
facilities in a 90-day period. In November, 26 patients met the criteria and were 
reviewed, 11 were referred to case management, 2 were placed in Restricted 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Services, 12 patients required no action. A biennial review was performed on 1 
patient who was released from Restricted Services. In December, 21 patients met the 
criteria and were reviewed, 9 were referred to case management, 1 was placed in 
Restricted Services and 11 required no further action. 
DUR Board members asked if the focus of these reviews is only controlled 
substances. The MCO plan representatives indicated that other issues are addressed 
and often a patient utilizing multiple providers is referred to case management for 
better coordination of care. A question was asked about the criteria for continuing of 
Restricted Services on biennial review. The MCO plan representatives cited instances 
such as patients paying cash for prescriptions, asking for early refills or switching 
lock-in prescribers are indicators that a patient may need to remain in Restricted 
Services. 
B. New Business 
None 
C. Recommendations for Future Profile Reviews 
Marcia Mueting suggested that the DUR Board consider the next reviews to include 
patients concomitantly taking opioids and benzodiazepines, and patients concomitantly 
taking opioids and antipsychotics per HR 6. 
The DUR Board last discussed concomitant use of opioids and benzodiazepines in 2014, 
when for the time period of March to May was examined and found that there were 1,891 
prescribers who had 2,356 patients who met the criteria. Upon review, it was discovered 
that many of these patients were receiving the medications from separate prescribers. 
There was discussion on whether an edit should be put in place to prevent concomitant 
use and what the criteria for that edit should be. There was consensus that patients who 
received these medications from separate prescribers may be at higher risk of overdose. 
Marcia Mueting will work with each of the plans to gather data on these issues for 
discussion at the March meeting. Bernadette Ueda shared that for UHC, there were 5,467 
patients taking opioids and 1,324 patients taking opioids and benzodiazepines 
concomitantly in the 3rd quarter of 2018. 
VII. 
Prospective DUR 
A. New Business 
1. MME Daily Limit of 250 
Marcia Mueting noted that this limit will be put in place in June. DUR Board members 
discussed the dynamics between pharmacy corporate policies restricting opioid 
prescriptions and payor restrictions. 
B. Old Business 
1. MME Daily Limit of 300 
Marcia Mueting asked for feedback from the MCOs regarding the December 2018 
implementation of this limit. Kevin Peterson said that there were some opportunities for 
prescriber education on this issue and that NTC issued prior authorization overrides for 
some patients who could not taper the dose below 300 MME by the implementation of 
the edit. Bernadette Ueda explained that UHC allowed some patients to be 
“grandfathered” from the limit until January. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department 
None. 
IX. 
Future Meeting Dates 
January 8, 2019 
March 12, 2019 
May 14, 2019 
July 9, 2019 
September 10, 2019 
November 12, 2019 
X. 
Concerns and Comments from 
Board – A Board Member inquired about any information available on Medicaid expansion. 
Jenny Minchow noted that there was a webpage on DHHS’ website for information. (See 
http://dhhs.ne.gov/medicaid/Pages/MedicaidExpansion.aspx) 
Director – Annual Review of Policy Statements 
Marcia Mueting noted that there were a few draft changes proposed. A motion was made by 
Norman Kelley with a second from Phil Vuchetich to approve the Policy Statements as 
drafted. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, 
Howard-yes, Kelley-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion 
carried. 
State Representatives- None. 
Managed Care Organization Representatives- None. 
Public Attendees- Nancy Bell shared that the prescribing of Narcan has become a hot topic at 
many professional meetings. 
XI. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by Kirk Muffly with a second from Kevin Borcher to adjourn at 7:35 p.m. Vote as 
follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Howard-yes, Kelley-yes, 
Moore-yes, Muffly-no, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried.