STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://nebraskalegislature.gov/laws/statutes.php?statute=68-953
SEED_URL: https://nebraskalegislature.gov/laws/statutes.php?statute=68-953
SOURCE_ROLE: capped-crawl seed follow-up
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=UTF-8
TITLE: Nebraska Legislature

Nebraska Legislature 
NEBRASKA LEGISLATURE 
The official site of the Nebraska Unicameral Legislature 
MENU 
Home 
Chamber Viewer 
View Bills 
One Liners 
Statutes 
Summary 
Hearings 
Agenda 
Journal 
Budget 
Rule Book 
Constitution 
Legislature 
About The Nebraska State Legislature 
The Budget Process 
History of the Unicameral 
Lawmaking in Nebraska 
Maps 
Nebraska Blue Book 
On Unicameralism 
Photos 
Publications 
Senator Qualifications 
Student Programs 
Testifying at a Hearing 
Unicameral Update 
Visiting the Capitol 
Bills and Laws 
Introduction 
Search Bills 
Search Laws 
Print On Demand 
Calendar 
Committees 
About Standing and Special Committees 
Standing Committees 
Public Input Options 
Select & Special Committees 
Compact Commissions 
Hearing Schedules 
Occupational Board Reform Act Survey Results 
Legislative Divisions 
Clerk of the Legislature 
Legislative Oversight 
Legislative Fiscal Office 
Legislative Research Office 
Public Counsel/Ombudsman 
Revisor of Statutes 
Legislative Histories 
History Request 
News 
Reports 
Overview 
Agencies 
Committee 
Fiscal/Budget 
General Research 
Interim Studies 
Lobbyist Registration 
Legislative Oversight 
Public Counsel 
Revisor of Statutes 
Senators 
Senators' Landing Pages 
Senators' Duties 
Speaker 
Find your Senator 
Photos 
Session Information 
Transcripts 
For Agencies 
For Citizens 
For Journalists 
For Lobbyists 
For Students and Teachers 
Nebraska Revised Statute 68-953 
Revised Statutes 
Chapter 68 
68-953 
Print Friendly 
View Statute 68-952 
Chapter 68 Index 
View Statute 68-954 
Chapter 68 
68-953.
Preferred drug list; department; establish and maintain; pharmaceutical and therapeutics committee; members; expenses. 
(1) No later than July 1, 2010, the department shall establish and maintain a preferred drug list for the medical assistance program. The department shall establish a pharmaceutical and therapeutics committee to advise the department on all matters relating to the establishment and maintenance of such list. 
(2) The pharmaceutical and therapeutics committee shall include at least fifteen but no more than twenty members. The committee shall consist of at least (a) eight physicians, (b) four pharmacists, (c) a university professor of pharmacy or a person with a doctoral degree in pharmacology, and (d) two public members. No more than twenty-five percent of the committee shall be state employees. 
(3) The physician members of the committee, so far as practicable, shall include physicians practicing in the areas of (a) family medicine, (b) internal medicine, (c) pediatrics, (d) cardiology, (e) psychiatry or neurology, (f) obstetrics or gynecology, (g) endocrinology, and (h) oncology. 
(4) Members of the committee shall submit conflict of interest disclosure statements to the department and shall have an ongoing duty to disclose conflicts of interest not included in the original disclosure. 
(5) The committee shall elect a chairperson and a vice-chairperson from among its members. Members of the committee shall be reimbursed for expenses as provided in sections 81-1174 to 81-1177 . 
(6) The department, in consultation with the committee, shall adopt and publish policies and procedures relating to the preferred drug list, including (a) guidelines for the presentation and review of drugs for inclusion on the preferred drug list, (b) the manner and frequency of audits of the preferred drug list for appropriateness of patient care and cost effectiveness, (c) an appeals process for the resolution of disputes, and (d) such other policies and procedures as the department deems necessary and appropriate. 
Source 
Laws 2008, LB830, § 5; 
Laws 2020, LB381, § 54. 
View Statute 68-952 
Chapter 68 Index 
View Statute 68-954 
Frequent Questions 
Americans with Disabilities Act Notice 
Privacy Policy 
Glossary of Terms 
Contact Us 
Disclaimer 
OFFICIAL NEBRASKA GOVERNMENT WEBSITE 
Copyright © Nebraska Legislature, all rights reserved.