STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Mar%202019%20DUR%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: March 12, 2019
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1 
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday, March 12, 2019 
DRAFT pending approval at May Meeting 
DUR Board Members in Attendance: 
Nichole Boggs, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Lynn Carlson, RP 
Shana Castillo, RP 
Eric Gall, RP 
Bruce Houghton, MD 
Norman Kelley, MD 
Madeline Leiter, CU PharmD Candidate 
Roger Mattson, RP 
Charlie Moore, RP 
Marcia Mueting, RP 
Kirk Muffly, MD 
Robert Wergin, MD 
DUR Board members not in Attendance: 
Kevin Borcher, RP 
Susan Howard, MD 
David Randolph, RP 
Phil Vuchetich, RP 
Guests in Attendance: 
Jill Bot, RP Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Carisa Masek, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Jenny Minchow, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Shannon Nelson, RP, WellCare of Nebraska (WC) 
Kevin Peterson, RP, Nebraska Total Care (NTC) 
Bernadette Ueda, RP, United Health Care (UHC) 
Public Members in Attendance: 
Melissa Basil, Abbvie 
Holly Budlong, Abbvie 
Jim Graves, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Sean Parker, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Michelle Shirley, Idivior 
Garth Wright, Genentech 
Ryan Flugge, NovoNordisk 
Mike Frey, NovoNordisk 
Rick Kegler, Otsuka 
Dave Poskey, UCB 
Kent Van De Mark CU PharmD Candidate 
Andrew Stoecklein, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by DUR Director, Marcia Mueting. The Director recognized 
Carisa Masek, new pharmacy administrator with Medicaid & LTC Services. Board members, guests and 
public attendees introduced themselves. The Director noted that a copy of the Open Meeting Laws and 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
the meeting materials were available. Public attendees were asked to complete the sign-in sheet if they 
wished to be listed in the minutes as attending. 
II. 
Declaration of Any Conflict of Interest Changes 
No changes were declared. 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
A motion was made by Bob Wergin with a second from Norman Kelley to approve the agenda as 
presented. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, 
Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from January Meeting 
A motion was made by Bruce Houghton with a second from Bob Wergin to approve the minutes as 
presented. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, 
Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
V. 
Update on Recommendations from January Meeting 
No discussion. 
VI. 
Retrospective DUR 
A. Current Profile Review 
1. Restricted Services (RS) 
Marcia Mueting offered a printed report of the reviews and action of each plan. 
Bernadette Ueda noted that UHC is revising their process and currently has 123 
patients in Restricted Services. 
2. Follow Up on Previous Projects 
a. Diabetics between 40 and 75 years old not taking a statin 
Kevin Peterson of NTC noted that the numbers of patients decreased between 
2017 and 2018 because of their outreach to members and messaging to the 
pharmacies with their MTM program which encourages pharmacists to engage 
patients. Shannon Nelson of WC explained that the increase in patients between 
2017 and 2018 could be due to the churn of patients switching plans. The 
Director clarified that the reports are not controlled to assure that the same 
patient groups were represented in each year. 
b. Patients with Asthma Filling 2 or More Short-Acting Beta Agonist 
Inhalers (SABAs) in 30 days with no Inhaled Corticosteroid on File 
Bernadette Ueda of UHC noted that she is monitoring the fill ratio on the SABAs 
compared to the controller meds. Board members agreed that a better indicator 
would be consistent use of 2 or more SABAs over a longer time period. 
3. Patients taking more than 250 MME 
It was observed that the number of patients exceeding 250 MME decreased in the time 
period prior to the implementation of the 300 MME limit in December of 2018. Board 
members asked if there have been any impacts to decreasing the limits, but none were 
reported. Plans are looking at specific types of pain, such as low back pain, to offer 
alternatives to opioids. 
B. New Business 
1. Data on Patients Taking Concomitant Opioids and Benzodiazepines 
Shannon Nelson of WC provided data on a study done in Medicare patients taking 
opioids and benzodiazepines concomitantly. DUR Board members identified the key 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
points of the study to be that time period that patients are in greatest risk of overdose is in 
the first 90 days of concomitant use and patients had a higher risk of overdose when the 
medications were prescribed by multiple prescribers. Bernadette Ueda of UHC reported 
that there is currently in place a soft edit for concomitant use of opioids and 
benzodiazepines. A motion was made by Kirk Muffly with a second by Bob Wergin to 
recommend a soft edit for any new start (none in past 90 days) for opioid/benzodiazepine 
combination when not prescribed by the same prescriber for a patient already on an 
opioid or benzodiazepine. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, 
Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, and Wergin-yes. 
Motion carried. 
2. Data on patients taking concomitant opioids and antipsychotics 
Board members expressed concern over the lack of data regarding harm caused by this 
combination of medications. A motion was made by Eric Gall with a second from Bob 
Wergin to recommend that we continue to monitor this issue by reviewing use of 
concomitant opioids by antipsychotic in 6 months. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-
yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, and 
Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
C. Recommendations for Future Profile Reviews 
Recommendations for future profile reviews included use of benzodiazepines and 
stimulants, Xeljanz dosing, antidepressant persistence in newly diagnosed patients per 
HEDIS measure and compliance with newer anticoagulants. 
VII. 
Prospective DUR 
A. New Business 
1. Prospective DUR Edits 
Each plan submitted Table 1 from the CMS Annual Report which details the top PA 
requests by drug name and drug class, the top reasons for denial, the top 10 drugs by 
amount paid, and the top 10 drugs by claim count. DUR Board members did not find 
the information useful. 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department 
The Department asked the DUR Board for a review of the issue of off-label use of stimulants. 
IX. 
Future Meeting Dates 
May 14, 2019 
July 9, 2019 
September 10, 2019 
November 12, 2019 
X. 
Concerns and Comments from 
Board – Concerns were expressed about how difficult it was to hear comments from other 
Board members in the new venue. 
Director – None. 
State Representatives- None. 
Managed Care Organization Representatives- None. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Public Attendees- Ryan Flugge noted that the data on the use of statins in diabetics is difficult 
to interpret and should not be disregarded as death from cardiovascular disease is highest in 
this patient population. Ryan encouraged the DUR Board to pursue projects that decrease 
cardiovascular disease. 
XI. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by Lynn Carlson with a second from Charlie Moore to adjourn at 8:08 p.m. Vote as 
follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-
yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried.