STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Nov%202018%20DUR%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: November 6, 2018
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1 
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday, November 6, 2018 
DRAFT pending approval at January Meeting 
DUR Board Members in Attendance: 
Kevin Borcher, RP 
Lynn Carlson, RP 
Shana Castillo, RP 
Norman Kelley, MD 
Madeline Leiter, CU PharmD Candidate 
Roger Mattson, RP 
Charlie Moore, RP 
Marcia Mueting, RP 
Kirk Muffly, MD 
David Randolph, RP 
Phil Vuchetich, RP 
Robert Wergin, MD 
DUR Board members not in Attendance: 
Nichole Boggs, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Eric Gall, RP 
Bruce Houghton, MD 
Susan Howard, MD 
Guests in Attendance: 
Jill Bot, RP Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Valarie Simmons, Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Ashleigh Grammar UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Jenny Minchow, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Shannon Nelson, RP, WellCare of Nebraska (WC) 
Kevin Peterson, RP, Nebraska Total Care (NTC) 
Bernadette Ueda, RP, United Health Care (UHC) 
Public Members in Attendance: 
Melissa Basil, Abbvie 
Mike Donze, Genentech 
Garth Wright, Genentech 
Dawn Bina, Novonordisk 
Edie Dodson, Sanofi Genzyme 
Derek Classen, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Tanner Griffith, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Zach Kaster, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by DUR Director, Marcia Mueting. The Director noted that 
a copy of the Open Meeting Laws and the meeting materials were available. Public attendees were asked 
to complete the sign-in sheet if they wished to be listed in the minutes as attending. Board members, 
guests and public attendees introduced themselves. 
II. 
Declaration of Any Conflict of Interest Changes 
No changes were declared. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
A motion was made by Charlie Moore with a second from Phil Vuchetich to approve the agenda as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, 
Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from September Meeting 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from David Randolph to approve the minutes as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, 
Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
V. 
Update on Recommendations from September Meeting 
No discussion. 
VI. 
Retrospective DUR 
A. Current Profile Review 
1. Restricted Services (RS) 
Marcia Mueting reported that in Fee-For-Service (FFS) the criteria for restricted 
services review is patients utilizing 6 or more prescribers and 3 or more pharmacies 
in a month. No patients met the criteria in September or October. 
Shannon Nelson with WC shared that in September there were 24 members who met 
the criteria for review. 8 were referred to case management. 4 were added to RS. 4 
had no further follow up. 2 members were released from RS upon biennial review. In 
October, 23 members were reviewed. 13 were referred to case management. 1 was 
added to RS. 8 required no action. 
Kevin Peterson with NTC shared that in September, 25 members were reviewed. 1 
member was added to RS. 5 members were removed from RS after biennial review. 
In October, 18 members met the criteria for review. 1 was added to RS. 4 were 
removed from RS upon biennial review. 
Bernadette Ueda of UHC explained that in September 6 members were reviewed. 4 
were added to RS. 2 were removed from RS upon biennial review. There is a total of 
133 members in RS, all of whom are in case management. There was not a meeting 
in October for review of patients utilizing multiple providers. 
2. MME Daily Limit of 300 Implementation Date: December 6, 2018 
Bernadette Ueda explained that letters were recently sent on these patients. No 
additional information is available. 
3. 7 Day Limit in Opioid-Naïve Patients (max of 50 MME per day) 
Bernadette Ueda reported that 1,093 letters were sent to prescribers. To date, 150 
responses were received. 44 found the information useful. 67 said that the 
information was not useful. 48 prescribers noted that they planned to change the 
therapy, and 11 prescribers indicated that they would monitor the patient. 
4. Adult patients taking stimulants exceeding the FDA-Approved Limits 
Bernadette Ueda shared that 398 letters were sent. Only 2 responses have been 
received to date. 1 indicated that the information was useful, the other indicated that 
the information was not useful. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
5. Concomitant Antipsychotics in Children 
Shannon Nelson of WC reported that 168 letters were sent on June 27th. 10 responses 
were received. 
Kevin Peterson explained that NTC has an ongoing project to monitor this issue. On 
average, the PUMR team sends 3 letters per week to prescribers on mental health 
drug utilization. 
Bernadette Ueda noted that UHC did not send letters on this topic. 
6. Concomitant Mood Stabilizers 
Marcia Mueting explained that the DUR Program will be sending letters moving 
forward on projects recommended by the DUR Board and will be working with the 
plans to get information for the letters. 
B. Recommendations for Future Profile Reviews 
Letters will be sent in November on concomitant antidepressants medications in children. 
Letters will be sent in December on patients exceeding 250 MME. Board discussion 
resulted in a consensus to provide prescribers the morphine equivalent chart to calculate a 
patient’s MME with those letters. 
VII. 
Prospective DUR 
A. New Business 
1. New Drug Review – Jynarque 
There was no public comment. Shana Castillo made a motion to recommend prior 
authorization on Jynarque with the criteria as drafted with a second from Phil 
Vuchetich. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, 
Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. 
Motion carried. 
2. Annual Review of Growth Hormone Prior Authorization Criteria 
There was no public comment. Lynn Carlson made a motion to recommend approval 
of the criteria as presented with a second from Bob Wergin. Vote as follows: 
Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, Muffly-
yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
3. Annual Review of IGF-1 Prior Authorization 
There was no public comment. Norman Kelley made a motion to recommend 
approval of the criteria as presented with a second from Dave Randolph. Vote as 
follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, 
Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
Old Business 
1. Review Draft Criteria for Prior Authorization of Long-Acting Opioids 
Board members reviewed the number of patients who were considered opioid naïve 
(no claims for an opioid in 90 previous days) that received a long-acting opioid. 
There was no public comment. There were approximately 350 patients who met the 
criteria. A motion was made to recommend a prior authorization for the use of long-
acting opioids in opioid naïve patients by Dave Randolph with a second from Bob 
Wergin. Vote as follows: Borcher-no, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-
yes, Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Board discussion resulted in a consensus that when letters are sent to prescribers of 
patients exceeding 90 MME per day that a recommendation for a naloxone 
prescription be provided by the prescribers. 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department 
None. 
IX. 
Future Meeting Dates 
January 8, 2019 
March 12, 2019 
May 14, 2019 
July 9, 2019 
September 10, 2019 
November 12, 2019 
X. 
Concerns and Comments from 
Board – A Board Member asked about the impact of the ballot initiative to expand Medicaid 
in Nebraska. There was discussion of rolling patients into existing plans, but more 
information will be available after the results of the election. 
Director – None. 
State Representatives- None. 
Managed Care Organization Representatives- None. 
Public Attendees- None. 
XI. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by Charlie Moore with a second from Phil Vuchetich to adjourn at 7:43 
p.m. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, 
Moore-yes, Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes and Wergin-yes. Motion carried.