STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/July%202019%20DUR%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: July 9, 2019
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1 
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday, July 9, 2019 
DRAFT pending approval at September Meeting 
DUR Board Members in Attendance: 
Kevin Borcher, RP 
Jerrick Bowers, CU PharmD Candidate 
Lynn Carlson, RP 
Shana Castillo, RP 
Eric Gall, RP 
Bruce Houghton, MD 
Norman Kelley, MD 
Marcia Mueting, RP 
Kirk Muffly, MD 
David Randolph, RP 
Phil Vuchetich, RP 
Robert Wergin, MD 
DUR Board members not in Attendance: 
Roger Mattson, RP 
Charlie Moore, RP 
Susan Howard, MD 
Angela Wong, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Guests in Attendance: 
Jill Bot, RP Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Carisa Masek, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Larra Petersen, Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Jenny Minchow, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Shannon Nelson, RP, WellCare of Nebraska (WC) 
Kevin Peterson, RP, Nebraska Total Care (NTC) 
Kristen Grimaldi, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Public Members in Attendance: 
Melissa Basil, Abbvie 
Holly Budlong, Abbvie 
Brent Hildebrand, Gilead 
Michelle Puyear, Gilead 
Dave Cecil, Janssen 
Lisa deVries, Mercer 
Nancy Bell, Pfizer 
Marc Parker, Sunovion 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by DUR Director, Marcia Mueting. Board members, guests 
and public attendees introduced themselves. The Director noted that a copy of the Open Meeting Laws 
and the meeting materials were available. Public attendees were asked to complete the sign-in sheet if 
they wished to be listed in the minutes as attending. 
II. 
Declaration of Any Conflict of Interest Changes 
No changes were declared. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
A motion was made by Bob Wergin with a second from Norman Kelley to approve the agenda as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, 
Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from May Meeting 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from Bruce Houghton to approve the minutes as 
presented. Vote as follows: Borcher-abstain, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-
yes, Muffly-abstain, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
V. 
Update on Recommendations from May Meeting 
No discussion. 
VI. 
Retrospective DUR 
A. Current Profile Review 
1. Restricted Services (RS) 
The Director noted that each month all plans are reviewing patient’s drug utilization 
if certain criteria are met. These criteria are intended to evaluate patients who are 
utilizing multiple providers. There was no additional discussion. 
B. Recommendations for Future Profile Reviews 
Carisa Masek noted that she is reviewing retrospective projects completed in other states, 
focusing on opiates, antipsychotics and benzodiazepine utilization. 
VII. 
Prospective DUR 
A. New Business 
1. Annual Review of Hepatitis C Criteria 
Jenny Minchow explained that DHHS modified the fibrosis score requirement to include patient with a 
score of 2 or greater. Shannon Nelson shared that most of the prior authorizations were denied as not 
including all requested information or the patient did not meet the criteria. Some requests were denied 
because the patient had other drug coverage, or the medication was being requested for a longer duration 
of treatment than recommended. Kevin Peterson noted that most denials were for patients that did not 
meet the fibrosis score of 2. There was discussion about the definitions of cost of care and the data need 
to make more informed decisions. A motion was made by Bruce Houghton with a second from Phil 
Vuchetich to approve the draft criteria as amended. Vote as follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-
yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Muffly-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. 
Motion carried. 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department 
Carisa Masek thanked Marcia Mueting, Joni Cover and the NPA for their leadership. She 
explained how the DUR Board would move forward, including a strategic planning session at 
the next scheduled meeting. 
IX. 
Future Meeting Dates 
September 10, 2019 
X. 
Concerns and Comments from 
Board – Board members expressed concerns about how will DHHS maintain impartiality 
with the termination of the contract with NPA. There were questions about whether DHHS 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
has a computer system that will be able to accurately track outcomes. Larra Petersen noted 
that the DMA Project will be replacing the current analytics tool. 
Director – Marcia Mueting thanked the Board members for their service and reviewed some 
of the important initiatives recommended by the DUR Board. 
State Representatives- None. 
Managed Care Organization Representatives- None. 
Public Attendees- Nancy Bell thanked Marcia Mueting for building relationships with 
industry representatives and creating an atmosphere of partnership. Joni Cover thanked 
Marcia Mueting and the DUR Board for their dedication and for making difficult decisions to 
decrease costs and improve the health of the Medicaid recipients. 
XI. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from Kevin Borcher to adjourn at 7:35 p.m. Vote as 
follows: Borcher-yes, Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Muffly-yes, 
Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried.