STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/May%202019%20DUR%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: May 14, 2019
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1 
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday, May 14, 2019 
DRAFT pending approval at July Meeting 
DUR Board Members in Attendance: 
Nichole Boggs, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Jerrick Bowers, CU PharmD Candidate 
Lynn Carlson, RP 
Shana Castillo, RP 
Eric Gall, RP 
Bruce Houghton, MD 
Norman Kelley, MD 
Madeline Leiter, CU PharmD Candidate 
Roger Mattson, RP 
Charlie Moore, RP 
Marcia Mueting, RP 
David Randolph, RP 
Phil Vuchetich, RP 
Robert Wergin, MD 
Angela Wong, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
DUR Board members not in Attendance: 
Kevin Borcher, RP 
Susan Howard, MD 
Kirk Muffly, MD 
Guests in Attendance: 
Jill Bot, RP Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Valarie Simmons, Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Carisa Masek, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Jenny Minchow, RP Nebraska Medicaid & LTC Services 
Shannon Nelson, RP, WellCare of Nebraska (WC) 
Kevin Peterson, RP, Nebraska Total Care (NTC) 
Bernadette Ueda, RP, United Health Care (UHC) 
Public Members in Attendance: 
Melissa Basil, Abbvie 
Aimee Redhair, Biogen 
Melissa Laurie, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Sean Parker, Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Michelle Shirley, Indivior 
Valerie Ng, Indivior 
Brent Hildebrand, Gilead 
Karen Einbinder, Greenwich Biosciences 
Kendra Davies, Greenwich Biosciences 
Jim Baumann, Pfizer 
Doug Wood, Viiv 
Kelsie Post, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
Ku’ulei Stuhr, UNMC PharmD Candidate 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by DUR Director, Marcia Mueting. The Director recognized 
Nicole Boggs and Madeline Leiter for their service to the DUR Board as student members. Board 
members, guests and public attendees introduced themselves. The Director noted that a copy of the Open 
Meeting Laws and the meeting materials were available. Public attendees were asked to complete the 
sign-in sheet if they wished to be listed in the minutes as attending. 
II. 
Declaration of Any Conflict of Interest Changes 
No changes were declared. 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
A motion was made by Lynn Carlson with a second from Bob Wergin to approve the agenda as 
presented. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, 
Moore-yes, Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from March Meeting 
A motion was made by Norman Kelley with a second from Bruce Houghton to approve the minutes as 
presented. Vote as follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, 
Moore-yes, Randolph-abstain, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
V. 
Update on Recommendations from March Meeting 
No discussion. 
VI. 
Retrospective DUR 
A. Current Profile Review 
1. Restricted Services (RS) 
A DUR Board member asked why the criteria for restricted services review included 
a patient’s utilization of three or more pharmacies. The DUR Board discussed that it 
is common for patients to utilize more than one pharmacy due to need of specialty 
pharmacies, pharmacies when the patient is away from home, hospital outpatient 
pharmacy discharge medications, mail-order pharmacy, etc. 
Part of UHC’s Criteria is to examine patients that have a diagnosis code of poisoning 
or overdose within the past 180 days. A DUR Board member asked if the other plans 
included this in their criteria. Both TC and WC stated that usually a patient’s visit to 
the ED for toxicity or overdose will trigger a review. 
B. New Business 
1. Patients taking stimulants without an FDA-approved diagnosis on file 
After a lot of discussion, it was established that diagnosis code data were pulled from 
medical claims and matched to pharmacy claims data in order to establish a list of 
patients who were receiving stimulants without an FDA-approved diagnosis. Some board 
members were concerned about the use of stimulants for treatment of obesity and 
depression (for terminally ill), but these are considered FDA-approved indications or are 
listed in the compendia, and allowable for Medicaid coverage. The DUR Board reached a 
consensus that prescribers of patients with no FDA-approved indication on file should be 
notified that an FDA-approved indication and diagnosis code must be present in the 
medical record for the stimulant to be covered. It was recommended that providers should 
be notified within the next few months of this requirement to allow for time to apply 
changes to the coding of patient office visits. The board recommends that after January 1, 
2020 prescriptions for stimulants will be rejected if there is no appropriate diagnoses 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
code in the medical claims data. The board also agreed that this should be reviewed again 
before the edit goes into effect. 
2. Concomitant use of Stimulants and Benzodiazepines 
Susan Howard apologized for being unable to attend the meeting but provided her 
expertise on this topic by phone in advance of the meeting with the Director. Per her 
clinical judgement, it is neither safe nor recommended to use stimulants with 
benzodiazepines. A board member stated that although he does not prescribe these 
together, there are cases where a short-term benzodiazepine prescription could be 
indicated despite stimulant use (i.e. for anxiety while flying). Board members agreed that 
data should be collected to evaluate which benzodiazepines are being used with 
stimulants, how many patients are prescribed both, and if the prescriptions are coming 
from the same prescriber. This topic will be reviewed in either the July or September 
meeting. 
3. Antidepressant Persistence in Patients Diagnosed with MDD 
This topic was not discussed because plans are already being evaluated on this. 
D. Recommendations for Future Profile Reviews 
The board agreed that focus should remain on current topics before introducing new profile 
reviews. 
VII. 
Prospective DUR 
A. New Business 
1. New Drug Review 
Epidiolex 
The Director requested that the phrase “not for monotherapy” be added to the draft criteria 
because studies included only patients that were on multiple antiepileptic agents. Since this 
drug is not part of a PDL class, managed care plans may draft their own criteria. The board 
discussed the data about the number of requests, the approvals, and denials. Most denials 
were appealed and later approved due to the addition of an appropriate diagnosis code. Public 
comment was offered by Kendra Davies from Greenwich Biosciences. She presented about 
approved indications, clinical trial data, adverse effects, the difference between CBD and 
THC, as well as other information from the package insert of Epidiolex. Board members 
discussed data about the number of requests for Epidiolex, and how many of those requests 
were approved or denied. Most denied requests were appealed and later approved after the 
addition of an appropriate diagnosis code. A motion was made to recommend the draft 
criteria as amended by Bruce Houghton with a second from Bob Wergin. Vote as follows: 
Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, 
Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried. 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department 
None. 
IX. 
Future Meeting Dates 
July 9, 2019 
September 10, 2019 
November 12, 2019 
X. 
Concerns and Comments from 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Board – None. 
Director – None. 
State Representatives- None. 
Managed Care Organization Representatives- None. 
Public Attendees- None. 
XI. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by Charlie Moore with a second from Phil Vuchetich to adjourn at 7:58 p.m. Vote as 
follows: Carlson-yes, Castillo-yes, Gall-yes, Houghton-yes, Kelley-yes, Mattson-yes, Moore-yes, 
Randolph-yes, Vuchetich-yes, and Wergin-yes. Motion carried.