STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Nebraska%20Medicaid%20DUR%20Minutes%20May%202022.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Minutes
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Meeting Minutes 
In-Person and Virtual Meeting Format 
May 10, 2022 
The Nebraska Drug Utilization Review (DUR) Board met on May 10, 2022. A hybrid format of in-
person and virtual via Webex was held. It originated at the Country Inn Suites in Lincoln, Nebraska. 
DUR Board Members in attendance in-person or via Webex -- Phil Vuchetich, RP; Robert Wergin, 
MD., Anthony Ross, M.D., Tom Dunn, R.P., Bruce Houghton, M.D., David Randolph, RP. 
DUR Board Member not in attendance: Tim Bourke, RP., Susan Howard, MD., Charlie Moore, R.P. 
DHHS attendees: Carisa Schweitzer Masek, RP, Deputy Director Population Health; Leah Spencer, 
R.N., Program Specialist; Dianne Garside, R.P., Spencer Moore, R.P., Ken Saunders, R.P., Director 
of Pharmacy for Nebraska Medicaid 
Contracted attendees: Nikia Bennette-Carter, RP, Magellan Rx Management; Elanah Figueroa, 
Magellan RX Management; Jamie Benson, RP, Nebraska Total Care; Shannon Nelson, RP, 
Nebraska HealthyBlue; Bernadette Ueda, RP, United Health Care. 
Public visitors attended via Webex and in-person: Tami Sova, Biogen; Aimee Redhair, Biogen; 
Erin Hohman, AbbVie; Dee Humm, Genentech; Jeremy Genentech; James Bloom, Vitae; Marc 
Parker, Sunovion. 
I. 
Call to Order 
The meeting was called to order by Ken Saunders on May 10, 2022 at 6:31 pm CDT. Members and 
attendees were welcomed and were requested to introduce themselves. Public attendees were 
directed to complete the sign-in sheet to be added to the meeting minutes. Ken Saunders made 
known that meeting materials and the Open-Meetings Law were available. 
II. 
Conflict of Interest 
Saunders called for declaration of conflicts of interest. None were declared. 
III. 
Agenda approval 
No changes were made to the May 10, 2022 meeting agenda as presented. A motion was made by 
Phil Vuchetich and seconded by Robert Wergin to approve the agenda. The motion was voted upon 
and approved. 
--- Page 2 ---
IV. 
Meeting Minutes from January 11, 2022 
The Minutes were reviewed from the January 11, 2022 DUR Board meeting and voted upon by the 
members. The DRAFT minutes were passed as updated. It passed with Houghton and Wergin both 
abstaining due to their absence from the January 11, 2022 meeting. 
V. 
Meeting Minutes from March 8, 2022 
The Minutes were reviewed from the March 8, 2022 DUR Board meeting and voted upon by the 
members. The DRAFT minutes were passed as updated. It passed with Houghton and Wergin both 
abstaining due to their absence from the March 8, 2022 meeting. 
VI. 
Special Topics 
Because of the absence of most DUR Board members from the March 8, 2022 meeting, the MME 
results from the Annual CMS Survey were reviewed by DUR Board members. A discussion was had 
that included how far Nebraska has come in respect to tapering down to 90 MME. The discussion 
included the multiple MME values for the states and how some states were represented by multiple 
MCO’s and how some of the states had multiple MME values compared to other states. The DUR 
Board reviewed the semi-annual SUPPORT Act data from the meeting on March 8, 2022. Saunders 
related that this review includes the use benzodiazepines, opioids, antipsychotics, and gabapentin-
type medications. Antipsychotic use in children continues to be an important category for review in 
the SUPPORT Act. DHHS will continue to analyze and report the data from the categories. DHHS will 
send out the findings to the DUR Board members prior to the meeting in six months. 
Carisa Schweitzer Masek, RP, Deputy Director of Population Health, reviewed with the DUR Board 
members the data supplied by CyncHealth, Nebraska’s PDMP. In her discussion, she stipulated that 
the data from Cynchealth represents the CMS SUPPORT Act information. Tom Dunn discussed 
Nursing Home patient use of narcotics and how they can still be monitored via the PDMP even 
though per the SUPPORT Act Nursing Home patients do not need to be monitored. 
Carisa shared with the DUR Board Members the CMS reporting structure in respect to the SUPPORT 
Act and how DHHS will breakdown the data and how we will share smaller sets of data to the DUR 
Board Members. If we presented all the data in one DUR Board Meeting, there is so much data to be 
shared that the ability to digest the data would be overwhelming. This way we can present small bites 
of data and get very comfortable with the data that is presented. 
Dianne Garside, R.P., presented a slide set on the prior authorization form for Xolair®. This included 
its use, side effects, the prior authorization criteria and changes to be made in its prior authorization 
form. Vinay Mehta, M.D., Board Certified in Adult and Pediatric Asthma and Allergy, called in to give 
testimony on the use of and self-administration of Xolair© by a patient at home. The use includes the 
transition from physician office administration after three successful doses 
to home administration after proper training. The home administration will only be permitted if the 
patient has had no anaphylaxis events with the first three doses given in a physician’s office. 
The usual post-dose waiting period before the patient is discharged home from the physician’s office 
is approximately 90 minutes to 120 minutes at a rate of 0.1% to 0.2% having anaphylaxis. 
The Medical Liaison specialist from Genentech, answered questions in respect to adverse effects, 
patient monitoring during and after the administration and risk documentation. 
--- Page 3 ---
VII. 
Future Meeting Date 
The next DUR Board Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday July 12, 2022 at the Country Inn Suites. The 
dinner session for the DUR Board members will start promptly at 6:00 PM CDT, with the public 
session to begin at 6:30 PM CDT. The meeting will be in-person only. 
VIII. Concerns & Comments 
There was quite a bit of discussion on future meeting topics and with the data tool CyncHealth, the 
DUR Board Members are looking forward to being able to use this tool to take a deeper dive into the 
data. There was a discussion concerning the elimination of the sobriety mandate and Heptitis C 
treatment from the AbbVie Medical Liaison. There were no other topics discussed or shared by the 
DUR Board members, the public members or DHHS personnel. 
IX. 
Adjournment 
A motion was made by the DUR Board members and passed with an unanimous vote in the 
affirmative. Motion for adjournment by Wergin and second by Vuchetich.The vote was unanimous for 
adjournment. Meeting adjournment was at 8:20 PM.