STATE: Nebraska
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Nebraska%20Medicaid%20DUR%20Minutes%20September%202022.pdf
SEED_URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/Drug-Utilization-Review.aspx
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Minutes​
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Meeting Minutes 
September 13, 2022 
DUR Board Members in attendance: 
In person: Tim Bourke, R.P. 
Virtual: Charlie Moore, R.P., Dave Randolph, R.P. 
DUR Board Members not in attendance: Tom Dunn, R.P., Bruce Houghton, M.D., Susan Howard, 
M.D., Anthony Ross, R.P., Robert Wergin, M.D. 
Nebraska Medicaid & LTC attendees in person: Carisa Schweitzer Masek, R.P., Deputy Director 
Population Health; Leah Spencer, R.N., Program Specialist; Dianne Garside, R.P. 
Virtual: Spencer Moore, R.P. 
Not in attendance: Ken Saunders, R.P. 
Contracted attendees in person: Jamie Benson, R.P., Nebraska Total Care. Virtual: Nikia Bennette-
Carter, R.P., Magellan Rx Management; Elanah Figueroa, Account Manager, Magellan RX 
Management; Shannon Nelson, R.P., Healthy Blue Nebraska; Bernadette Ueda, R.P., United Health 
Care. 
Public visitors in attendance in person: Melissa Basil, Abbvie; Erin Hohman, Abbvie; Camille Kerr, 
Regeneron; Kurt Hendrickson, Abbvie. Other virtual attendees. 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
The meeting was called to order by Dianne Garside at 6:30 pm. A copy of the Open-Meetings Act 
was available. A quorum was not established at the beginning of the meeting. 
II. 
Conflict of Interest 
No changes in conflict of interest were declared. 
III. 
Agenda approval 
A quorum was not established at the beginning of the meeting. No vote may be taken. No changes to 
the agenda were made. 
IV. 
Approval of Minutes from DUR Board May 10, 2022 meeting. 
A quorum was not established at the beginning of the meeting. No corrections made. No vote may be 
taken. 
V. 
Review and Approval from DUR Board July 12, 2022 meeting. 
A quorum was not established at the beginning of the meeting. No corrections made. No vote may be 
taken. 
--- Page 2 ---
VI. 
Drug Review: 
The Xolair and Immunomodulator Self-Administered Injectables Prior Authorization Form was 
discussed as a follow-up to the July meeting. No corrections or changes were made. A quorum was 
not established at the beginning of the meeting. No vote may be taken. 
VII. 
DUR Topics: 
The State presented several DUR topics for review as future DUR projects. DUR Board members 
provided at length conversation and identified choice topics for the State to research for further 
discussion. 
VIII. Future Meeting Date 
The next meeting is scheduled for November 15th, 2022. 
IX. 
Concerns & Comments 
Board: None. 
DUR Director and State representatives: Schweitzer Masek provides information that the State has 
had discussion on recruitment for DUR Board membership and asks Board members and State 
partners to keep in mind any possible recruitments for contact. 
Magellan representatives: None 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) representatives: None 
Public attendees: None 
X. 
Adjournment 
The meeting was adjourned by Schweitzer Masek at 7:22 pm. No vote may be taken.