STATE: Hawaii
URL: https://medquest.hawaii.gov/en/about/Med-QUESTDrugUseReviewProgram.html
ROLE: meeting-date: 2026-05-13 Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html;charset=utf-8
TITLE: Med-QUEST Drug Use Review

Med-QUEST Drug Use Review Text Size Decrease - Increase + Reset Human Services Hawaii.gov Menu Home About What is Medicaid QUEST Integration Mission Statement The Administration Success Stories Recent News Hawai'i Medicaid State Plan and Demonstration Med-QUEST Healthcare Advisory Committee Need to get in touch with us? Contact Us Members & Applicants Get Started Apply for Medicaid Choose a Health Plan Start Your New Health Plan Medicaid Programs Already Covered Health Plans Change/Update Your Information My Choice My Way Going Home Plus Hawaii HCWIP Covered Benefits QUEST Integration Benefits Additional Covered Benefits Member Forms Provider Directory Fee-For-Service Rights & Responsibilities Grievance and Appeals HiPAA Member Resources Fraud Prevention Need to get in touch with us? Contact Us Plans & Providers Be a New Provider Pharmacy Provider Forms Managed Care Providers EPSDT Provider Relation Contact Primary Care Provider Fee-For-Service Fee Schedules Provider Bulletins Provider Manual Health Plan Resources Provider Resources Electronic Visit Verification Provider Memos Criminal History Record & Background Check Provider Exclusion Reinstatement List Provider Enrollment Modernization Health Assessment Grievance and Appeals Certification Programs Need to get in touch with us? Contact Us Resources Forms Reports Eligibility Branch Offices Medicaid Ombudsman Rules & Policies Quality Strategy Consumer Guides Solicitations and Contract Community Resources Stay Well Stay Covered Need to get in touch with us? Contact Us FAQ Need to get in touch with us? Contact Us Home About Med-QUEST Drug Use Review Med-QUEST Drug Use Review The Drug Use Review (DUR) program consists of prospective drug review, retrospective drug use review, and an educational program. Included but not limited to the following are ongoing interventions for physicians and pharmacists, targeted toward therapy problems or individuals identified in the course of retrospective drug use reviews, including intensified review or monitoring of selected prescribers or dispensers and re-evaluation of interventions after an appropriate period of time to determine if the intervention improved the quality of drug therapy, to evaluate the success of the interventions and make modifications as necessary. The goal is to ensure appropriate drug therapy, while permitting sufficient professional prerogatives to allow for individualized drug therapy. Med-QUEST is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the DUR program is operational. The agency has the authority to accept or reject the recommendations or decisions of the DUR Board. About the DUR Board DUR Members DUR Meetings The DUR Board assures that prescriptions are appropriate, are medically necessary, and are not likely to result in adverse medical results. The program shall be designed to educate physicians and pharmacists to identify and reduce the frequency of patterns of fraud, abuse, gross overuse, excessive utilization, or inappropriate or medically unnecessary care, or prescribing or billing practices that indicate abuse or excessive utilization among physicians, pharmacists, and patients, or associated with specific drugs or groups or drugs, as well as potential and actual severe adverse reactions to drugs including education on therapeutic appropriateness, overutilization and underutilization, appropriate use of generic products, therapeutic duplication, drug-disease contraindications, drug-drug interactions, incorrect drug dosage or duration of drug treatment, drug-allergy interactions, and clinical abuse/misuse. DUR Authorities HAR 17-1739.1-13 DUR Board The Social Security Act Section 1927 (g)(3)(D) 42 CFR 456, subpart K 42 CFR 456.703 - Drug use review program 42 CFR 456.716 - DUR Board The DUR Board consists of appointed active practicing physicians and pharmacists from various settings and one medical services representative in the State of Hawaii. Wendell Au, Registered Pharmacist TBA, Medical Services Representative Kelsey Kong Trujillo, Registered Pharmacist James Lumeng, M.D. Miki Lei Morita, Registered Pharmacist Reed Muraoka, Registered Pharmacist Denise Oshiro, Registered Pharmacist Curtis Toma, M.D. Greg Yuen, M.D. DUR meetings take place in-person and on-line using a virtual platform. The 2026 tentative schedule is: Wednesday, February 11 Wednesday, May 13 Wednesday, August 12 Wednesday, November 18 Time: 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Location: Kakuhihewa Building - 601 Kamokila Blvd., Kapolei - Conference Rooms 577A and 577B Written comments can be submitted by email to [email protected] or mailed to Department of Human Services, Med-QUEST Division, Attn: Drug Use Review Board, P.O. Box 700190, Kapolei, HI 96709-0190. The agenda is posted to the State electronic calendar as required by the Hawaii Revised Statues (HRS) section 92-7(b) and not less than six calendar days before the meeting for public inspection. The board shall maintain a list of names and postal or electronic mail addresses of persons who request notification of meetings and shall mail or electronically mail a copy of the notice to the persons by means chosen by the persons at their last recorded postal or electronic mail address. All interested persons shall have an opportunity to submit data, views, or arguments, in writing, and an opportunity to present oral testimony to any agenda item. Any person providing oral testimony is requested to submit the remarks, or a summary of the remarks, in writing to the board, no later than 48 hours prior to the meeting and shall state the item on which the testimony is being presented. The board provides for oral testimony of three minutes. DUR Board Meeting: 11/10/2021 Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 05/17/2023 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 08/09/2023 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 11/29/2023 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 02/14/2024 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 05/08/2024 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 08/14/2024 Meeting Notice and Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 05/14/2025 Meeting Notice & Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 02/11/2026 Meeting Notice & Agenda Minutes DUR Board Meeting: 05/13/2026 Meeting Notice & Agenda Meeting Minutes Draft Scroll to top Forms Search & View all MED-Quest forms FAQs General frequently asked questions KOLEA Visit the KOLEA website for information on applying Department of Human Services Med-QUEST Division Contact Us Website Accessibility Terms of Use Privacy Policy Nondiscrimination Policy Report Website Problems About Med-Quest About Us Contact Us News & Updates Report Fraud, Waste, & Abuse State of Hawaii Hawaii.gov Human Services Statewide Search 2024 STATE OF HAWAII MED-QUEST DIVISION ALL RIGHTS RESERVED