STATE: Hawaii
URL: https://medquest.hawaii.gov/content/dam/formsanddocuments/pharmacy/DUR_Meeting_Minutes_08-09-2023.pdf
ROLE: linked: Minutes
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
JOSH GREEN, M.D. 
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
STATE OF HAWAII 
KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
KA ʻOIHANA MĀLAMA LAWELAWE KANAKA  
Med-QUEST Division 
P.O. Box 700190 
Kapolei, Hawai’i 96709-0190 
CATHY BETTS  
DIRECTOR  
KA LUNA HOʻOKELE 
  
  
JOSEPH CAMPOS II  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
 TRISTA SPEER  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
 
Date: August 9, 2023 
Time:  12:00 pm 
 
Remote Meeting Location:  Zoom Meeting participation for members and the public:  
https://medquest-hawaii-
gov.zoom.us/j/83012882996?pwd=cEE0TldPUmE5YXhVUE4zMzdrTWp1dz09 
 
In-Person Location: 
Kakuhihewa Building 
Conference Rooms 577A and 577B 
601 Kamokila Blvd., Kapolei, Hawaii  96707 
 
Members Present: 
Wendell Au, Vice-Chair, Pharmacist 
Dr. James Lumeng, Chair 
Miki Lei Morita, Pharmacist 
Reed Muraoka, Pharmacist 
Dr. Greg Yuen, 
Eddie Fox, Medical Service Representative 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, Clinical Standards Office DUR Coordinator, Pharmacist 
 
Members Absent: 
None 
 
Staff present: 
Marcy Healey, Acting Clinical Standards Office Administrator 
Julie Jay, Clinical Standards Office Secretary 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, Clinical Standards Office DUR Coordinator, Pharmacist 
Michael Mau, Information Technology Specialist 
Carmel Muenster, Clinical Standards Office Clerk 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Clinical Standards Office, Medical Director 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 9, 2023 
Page 2 
 
 
Public Attendance: 
In-person location:  None 
Virtual:  None 
 
I. 
Chair Dr. James Lumeng, called the meeting to order at 12:08 p.m. and welcomed 
participants to the meeting.  Chair Dr. James Lumeng, proceeded with a roll call of Board 
members.  A quorum of 7 members present was reported by the DUR Coordinator.  The 
Board members were informed to declare if they were not alone.  All participating board 
members declared that they were alone.  Other support members of the Drug Use Review 
Board were noted:  Dr. Lynette Honbo, Koan Risk Solutions (present); Gary Peton, Conduent 
Government Healthcare, pharmacist (present); Dr. Gavin Uchida, Clinical Standards Office, 
dentist (not present).  
II. 
No executive session was required. 
III. 
The May 17, 2023 meeting minutes were reviewed.  There was no public testimony.  
Without further discussion, it was moved by Dr. Lumeng to accept the minutes as presented 
and the motion was seconded by Eddie Fox.  The motion passed unanimously with no 
opposition and no abstentions.  For additional time to review the November 10, 2021 
meeting minutes, it was moved by Eddie Fox to postpone the approval of the November 10, 
2021 meeting minutes until the October 18, 2023 meeting.  Dr. James Lumeng seconded the 
motion.  There was no public testimony or further discussion.  The motion passed 
unanimously with no opposition and no abstentions. 
IV. 
For the election of officers, the motion was made that the past Chair Dr. James Lumeng and 
the past Vice-Chair Wendel Au, continue in their respective offices.  This was seconded by 
Dr. Greg Yuen.  Both Dr. James Lumeng and Wendel Au agreed to their nomination.  There 
was no public testimony nor further discussion.  The motion passed unanimously with no 
opposition and no abstentions. 
V. 
Dental Program– presented by Gary Peton and Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali.  
a. Highlights of the Dental Program paid claims data for the second quarter of 2023 versus 
the first quarter of 2023 were presented.  Dr. Toma clarified that the dental program was 
expanded to include adult coverage on January 1, 2023. 
i. 
There were 4,905 paid claims in the second quarter of 2023, representing 
approximately increase of 10% over first quarter of 2023. No Prior Authorization 
(PA) requests were received. 
ii. 
The end of quarter weekly claim count was 371 paid claims versus the first week of 
the quarter at 299.  Claims consisted of antibiotics, pain medications, 
chlorhexidine, fluoride and anti-inflammatories.  There were 1-2 benzodiazepines. 
iii. 
Controlled drugs utilization was 18.7% of paid claims for the second quarter of 
2023 compared to 16.3% in the first quarter of 2023.  Most were acetaminophen 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 9, 2023 
Page 3 
 
 
with codeine.  Monitoring will continue.  The provider memorandum FFS 23-05 
includes the dental formulary.  No outliers were found for oxycodone or 
hydrocodone or codeine (limit of a 3-day supply).  Beginning June 2023, the 
quantity limits prospective edits for controlled drugs as per provider memorandum 
QI2312 FFS 23-05 were finalized.  An increase in diazepam claims will be 
monitored for outliers. 
iv. 
There were 51 paid claims of sodium fluoride toothpaste (i.e. SF 5000) and they 
were all generic. 
b. No public testimony was shared.  
c. No motion was made. 
VI. 
State of Hawaii Organ and Tissue Transplant (SHOTT) Program – presented by Gary Peton 
and Dr. Lynette Honbo. 
a. Gary Peton reported appropriate utilization of all paid claims for the second quarter of 
2023. 
b. Expensive drug claims greater than $1,000:  Review noted one chemotherapy, Blincyto at 
a cost greater than $60,000.  Dr. Lynette Honbo, Koan Risk Solutions, shared that Koan 
facilitated a prior authorization to Conduent after consultation with Dr. Toma on the 
Blincyto claim. 
c. No public testimony was shared.   
d. No motion was made. 
VII. 
Federal Fiscal Year October 1, 2021 - September 30, 2022 - presented by Kathleen T. Kang-
Kaulupali. 
a. The DUR Coordinator presented the Annual DUR Calendar with Drug Utilization Review 
Minimum Standards for FFY 2022.  Due to low utilization and/or amounts of data on 
most of the reviews, annual review (instead of quarterly) is done.  These reviews are 
required by the Center of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and are reported on the 
annual DUR review for FFS due by June 30 of each year.  No DUR Board meeting was held 
in the fourth quarter of 2022 to present this review.  It is being presented today and was 
reported to CMS on June 30, 2023.  For the following, there was no or minimal claims for 
review.  Those that could be reviewed were not requiring intervention, recovery or policy 
change. 
i. 
Prospective DUR for chronic pain, initial fills for opioids, quantity limits, maximum 
daily morphine milligram equivalent (MME) limits. 
ii. 
Automated retrospective claims DUR for opioid fraud, waste and abuse, excessive 
utilization, inappropriate or medically unnecessary care, and aberrant prescribing 
or billing practices, concurrent prescriptions of opioids and benzodiazepines or 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 9, 2023 
Page 4 
 
 
antipsychotics.  Also part of the annual review of retrospective DUR is the dental 
program, hepatitis C and opioids (included in the controlled substances review). 
iii. 
Monitor and manage appropriate use of antipsychotic medications by children, 
Additional SUPPORT Act DUR changes, opioid after being prescribed one or more 
Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) drugs in absence of a new indication to 
support opioid utilization, at risk of opioid overdose to consider for co-prescription 
or co-dispensing of naloxone. 
b. No public testimony was shared.   
c. No motion made. 
VIII. 
Hepatitis C drug treatments – presented by Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali and Dr. Curtis Toma. 
a. The Hepatitis C Medications Estimated Expenditures chart was compiled from drug 
rebate data for trending.  Actual MQD claims data will be available for the next meeting.  
Initially, Harvoni was the drug of choice, but it now has a generic version and is no longer 
utilized.  The second drug of choice was Epclusa with a similar pattern.  Benchmarks for 
policy changes are noted.  Changes were less prior authorization criteria and they did not 
affect utilization.  Continued stable utilization occurred. 
i. 
First quarter in 2017 fibrosis score change of F3 to F1; 
ii. 
First quarter in 2019 fibrosis score change of F1 to F0; 
iii. 
First quarter in 2022 COVID public health emergency declared; 
iv. 
Fourth quarter in 2022 no alcohol or drug screen required and primary care 
provider attestation to gold card; and 
v. 
First quarter in 2023 no longer public health emergency for COVID. 
b. Policy changes for increased patient access to treatment are occurring nationally.  
Review of this shared data finds Hawaii policy is not limiting prescribing. 
c. Dr. Toma, Clinical Standards Office, Medical Director, explained provider memorandum 
QI2227, FFS 22-08.  To increase patient access to care, the goal is to expand primary care 
provider access by decreasing the specialist consultation requirement.  The American 
Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and the Infectious Diseases Society of 
America (IDSA) guidelines are to be followed.  A primary care provider attestation form is 
being finalized, to the decrease upfront barriers.  Further discussion at the next meeting 
is encouraged. 
d. No public testimony shared.   
e. No motion was made. 
IX. 
The next DUR Board meeting is Wednesday, October 18, 2023. 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 9, 2023 
Page 5 
 
 
X. 
The meeting was adjourned by Chair Dr. James Lumeng.   Vice-Chair Wendel Au moved that 
the meeting be adjourned; Eddie Fox seconded the motion.  There was no public testimony 
nor further discussion.  The motion passed unanimously with no opposition and no 
abstentions. 
 
