STATE: Hawaii
URL: https://medquest.hawaii.gov/content/dam/formsanddocuments/pharmacy/DUR_Meeting_Minutes-11-29-2023.pdf
ROLE: linked: Minutes
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
JOSH GREEN, M.D. 
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
STATE OF HAWAII 
KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
KA ʻOIHANA MĀLAMA LAWELAWE KANAKA  
Med-QUEST Division 
P.O. Box 700190 
Kapolei, Hawai’i 96709-0190 
CATHY BETTS  
DIRECTOR  
KA LUNA HOʻOKELE 
  
  
JOSEPH CAMPOS II  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
 TRISTA SPEER  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
 
Date: November 29, 2023 
Time:  12:00 pm 
 
Remote Meeting Location:  Zoom Meeting participation for members and the public:   
https://medquest-hawaii-gov.zoom.us/j/81607066196?pwd=BLLgbOxIG6y0Szi6N8uFvuCgeyr6Fz.1  
 
 
In-Person Location: 
Kakuhihewa Building 
Conference Rooms 577A and 577B 
601 Kamokila Blvd., Kapolei, Hawaii  96707 
 
Members Present: 
Wendell Au, Vice-Chair, Pharmacist 
Dr. James Lumeng, Chair 
Miki Lei Morita, Pharmacist 
Eddie Fox, Medical Service Representative 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, Clinical Standards Office DUR Coordinator, Pharmacist 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Clinical Standards Office Medical Director 
 
Members Absent: 
Reed Muraoka, Pharmacist 
Dr. Greg Yuen 
 
Staff present: 
Julie Jay, Clinical Standards Office Secretary 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, Clinical Standards Office DUR Coordinator, Pharmacist 
Michael Mau, Information Technology Specialist 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Clinical Standards Office, Medical Director 
 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
November 29, 2023 
Page 2 
 
 
 
I. 
Chair Dr. James Lumeng, called the meeting to order at 12:05pm and welcomed participants 
to the meeting.  Chair Dr. James Lumeng, proceeded with a roll call of Board members.  A 
quorum of 6 members present was reported by the DUR Coordinator.  The Board members 
were informed to declare if they were not alone.  All participating board members declared 
that they were alone.  One member has no video capability.  Other support members of the 
Drug Use Review Board were noted:  Gary Peton, Conduent Government Healthcare, 
pharmacist (present).   
 
II. 
The August 9, 2023 meeting minutes were reviewed.  There was no public testimony.  
Without further discussion, it was moved by Eddie Fox to accept the minutes as presented 
and the motion was seconded by Miki Morita.  The motion passed unanimously with no 
opposition and no abstentions.  The November 10, 2021 meeting minutes were reviewed.  
There was no public testimony.  Without further discussion, it was moved by Eddie Fox to 
accept the minutes as presented and the motion was seconded by Miki Morita.  The motion 
passed unanimously with no opposition and no abstentions. 
III. 
Dental Program – presented by Gary Peton.  
a. Gary Peton shared highlights of the Dental Program paid claims data for the third quarter 
of 2023 versus the second quarter of 2023.  The dental program adult coverage began on 
January 1, 2023. 
i. 
Approximately 5,200 paid claims in the third quarter of 2023 represented a 
continued increase over the 4,900 paid claims in second quarter in 2023. No Prior 
Authorization (PA) requests were received. 
ii. 
In 2022, the quarterly average paid claims were 1,500 or 115 paid claims per week.  
Currently the average weekly paid claims is 400, about 3 times higher than the 
2022 weekly average.  Unique identification numbers for providers are reviewed 
for multiple service dates.   
iii. 
Controlled drugs utilization found 16-18% of paid claims for the third quarter of 
2023 compared to 18% in the second quarter of 2023.  No provider outliers.   
iv. 
Fluoride toothpaste generic product use is preferred and advised to phone 
inquiries. There is sufficient access to at least three manufacturers within one 
generic code numbers (GCN).  Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali shared that a future 
fluoride study to improve access to children is suggested by Gavin Uchida, DDS, 
Medicaid dental consultant. 
b. No public testimony was shared. 
c. No motion was made. 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
November 29, 2023 
Page 3 
 
 
IV. 
State of Hawaii Organ and Tissue Transplant (SHOTT) Program - Gary Peton presented. 
a. Gary Peton reported appropriate utilization of all paid claims for third quarter of 2023; 
no outliers.  Dr. Lumeng shared that expenditures for injectables to treat cancer, 
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis have escalated for health plans.  Miki Morita shared 
that a low volume of transplants occurring locally may be a factor for a stable SHOTT 
drug utilization and expenditure.  Dr. Toma explained hospitals bill under a global fee and 
the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is therefore billed on the medical side 
and not seen on the pharmacy side. 
b. Expensive drug claims greater than $1,000:  Review noted individual paid claims are 
under $25,000 this quarter with typical utilization of budget. 
c. No public testimony was shared. 
d. No motion was made. 
V. 
Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2022, October 1, 2022 - September 30, 2023 - presented by 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali. 
a. The DUR Coordinator presented the Annual DUR Calendar with Drug Utilization Review 
Minimum Standards for FFY 2023.  These reviews are required by the Center of Medicare 
and Medicaid Services (CMS) and are reported on the annual DUR review for Fee-For-
Service (FFS) due by June 30 of each year.  It will be reported as required to CMS by June 
30, 2024, as an annual DUR.  Following the minimum standards shared at the August 9, 
2023 DUR Board meeting, there continues to be no or minimal claims for review.  Those 
that could be reviewed were not requiring outlier intervention, recovery or policy 
change. 
i. 
Prospective DUR: the dental formulary controlled substance quantity limits. 
ii. 
Automated retrospective claims DUR:  Excessive utilization of dental controlled 
substances and Hepatitis C drugs. 
b. No public testimony was shared. 
c. No motion made. 
VI. 
Hepatitis C drug treatments – Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali and Dr. Curtis Toma. 
a. The DUR Coordinator shared the Hepatitis C Medications estimated expenditures, days 
supply, and number of claims charts compiled from the MQD encounter data trends.  
These were similar patterns to the Drug Rebate data provided by Conduent.  Drug Rebate 
data was viewed as a sampling until Encounter data was available.  Expenditures for all 
Hepatitis C drugs has decreased from a high point in 2017 of $6 million (~200 claims per 
quarter) to an average of $1 million (~50 and ~75 claims per quarter) in 2021 and 2022.  
Dr. Toma noted the cost of individual drugs decreasing. 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
November 29, 2023 
Page 4 
 
 
b. Dr. Toma suggested requesting and reviewing the unique Medicaid identification 
numbers for new infections, reinfection, and treatment not completed.  Miki Morita 
shared lack of hepatologists was an issue. 
c. No public testimony shared. 
d. No motion was made. 
VII. 
The next DUR Board meeting is Wednesday, February 14, 2024. 
VIII. 
The meeting was adjourned by Chair Dr. James Lumeng at 12:53 p.m.  Vice-Chair Wendel Au 
so moved; Eddie Fox seconded the motion.  There was no public testimony or further 
discussion.  The motion passed unanimously with no opposition and no abstentions. 
 
