STATE: Hawaii
URL: https://medquest.hawaii.gov/content/dam/formsanddocuments/pharmacy/DUR_Meeting_Minutes-08-14-24.pdf
ROLE: linked: Minutes
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
JOSH GREEN, M.D. 
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
 
 
 
STATE OF HAWAII 
KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
KA ʻOIHANA MĀLAMA LAWELAWE KANAKA  
Med-QUEST Division 
Clinical Standards Office 
P.O. Box 700190 
Kapolei, Hawai’i 96709-0190 
RYAN YAMANE 
DIRECTOR  
KA LUNA HOʻOKELE 
  
  
JOSEPH CAMPOS II  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
  
  
 TRISTA SPEER  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
  
  
 
MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
 
Date: Wednesday, August 14, 2024 
 
Time:  12:00 P.M. (Noon) 
 
Remote Meeting Location:  Zoom Meeting participation for members and the public: 
https://medquest-hawaii-gov.zoom.us/j/83814701914?pwd=GYd8f0EZxMGhFcP8udsNf0p7fXew0O.1 
 
In-Person Location: 
Kakuhihewa Building 
Conference Rooms 577A and 577B 
601 Kamokila Blvd., Kapolei, Hawaii  96707 
 
Members Present: 
 
Dr. James Lumeng, Chair, Physician 
Wendell Au, Vice-Chair, Pharmacist 
Eddie Fox, Medical Service Representative 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, Pharmacist 
Miki Lei Morita, Pharmacist 
Reed Muraoka, Pharmacist 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Physician 
Dr. Greg Yuen, Physician 
 
Members Absent: 
 
None 
 
Staff present: 
Erin Gomez, Clinical Standards Office (CSO) Office Assistant  
Erin Lau, District Attorney General (DAG) 
Julie Jay, CSO Administrative Assistant 
Kathleen T. Kang-Kaulupali, CSO DUR Coordinator, Pharmacist 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 14, 2024 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4 
Michael Mau, Information Technology Specialist 
Dr. Curtis Toma, CSO Medical Director 
 
Public guests:  Gary Peton, Dr. Lynette Honbo, Patrick Uyemoto (Novo Nordisk), Ann Nelson 
(Vertex Pharmaceuticals), Chad Duncan (Vertex Pharmaceuticals), ARTIA Solutions, Stephanie 
Abraham, Linda Finch (Biogen), Alfred Herrera, Mike Donabedian (Sarepta Therapeutics), and 
KITV4 News. 
 
I. 
Vice-Chair Wendel Au called the meeting to order at 12:05 pm and welcomed participants to 
the meeting.  He proceeded with a roll call of DUR Board members.  Quorum was established 
with 7 members present.  Introductions of the new Clinical Standards Office Administrator 
Ranjani Starr and the prospective DUR Board member Kelsey Trujillo were presented.  The 
Board members participating were informed to declare if they were not alone.  Each 
participating Board members declared that they were alone.  Other guests of the Drug Use 
Review Board were noted and declared that they were alone:  Gary Peton, Conduent 
Government Healthcare, pharmacist (present) and Dr. Lynette Honbo, Conduent 
Government Healthcare, Medical Consultant (present). 
 
II. 
The May 8, 2024, meeting minutes were reviewed by the Board.  (Dr. James Lumeng joined 
the meeting.)  There was no public testimony.  Without further discussion, it was moved to 
accept the minutes as presented and the motion was seconded.  The motion passed 
unanimously, with no opposition and no abstentions. 
 
III. 
Old Business (updates) by Kathleen Kang-Kaulupali 
 
A. Dental pain medications and benzodiazepines review will be ongoing and reported if 
outliers are identified. 
B. Fluoride access for children is improving and the review is completed. 
C. State of Hawai‘i Organ and Tissue Transplant (SHOTT):  Outreach is to billing 
provider to verify amount and type of units utilized sill occur.  Education and 
recovery of over-paid claims are the priority.  An edit in the point of sale (POS) 
prospective drug utilization review (proDUR) for the prescription claim processing is 
the next option if the correct unit and amount are not occurring. 
D. Naloxone nasal sprays utilization in 2019 versus 2023:  By Gary Peton.  Zero claims 
for nasal spray were submitted in 2019 for both Medicaid managed care plans and 
FFS.  (Injections were prescribed instead sprays).  Generic nasal spray was available 
in 2023.  Prescribing increased to 600-700 doses per quarter in 2024 per drug rebate 
data.  Overall improved access to naloxone is present for the public from multiple 
non-Medicaid venues as well. 
E. No public testimony. 
 
 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 14, 2024 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4 
IV. 
Dental Program 
 
A. Second quarter 2024 highlights were shared by Gary Peton.  The volume of claims 
paid continues to increase over the previous quarter 2024.  No multiple claims per 
patient and no provider outliers were identified.  There are new providers including 
oral surgeons with increases on neighbor islands.  Eddie Fox asked if any issues with 
quantities occurred.  Gary Peton replied that there was no issue with the prescribed 
quantities or the existing formulary quantity limits.  The average claim spend is like 
last year:  Approximately $20/claim, half dispensing fee and half drug cost. 
 
B. Controlled drugs utilization for Calendar Year 2023 was presented by Kathleen Kang-
Kaulupali. 
 
i. 
No outlier providers were identified. 
ii. 
For 2024 the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention Dental Pain 
guidelines has no updates and cites CDC 2022 guidelines.  2023-2024 American 
Dental Association (ADA) Dental Pain Guidelines recommend nonopioid 
medications are first-line therapy for managing acute dental pain after tooth 
extraction(s) and the temporary management of toothache.  The use of opioids 
should be reserved for clinical situations when the first-line therapy is 
insufficient to reduce pain or there is contraindication of nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs.  Clinicians should avoid the routine use of just-in-case 
prescribing of opioids and should exert extreme caution when prescribing 
opioids to adolescents and young adults.  Miki Morita shared local dental 
prescribing does include antibiotic, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory and 
controlled substance pain medication. 
iii. 
The Hawaii Revised Statute §329-38.2 repealed June 30, 2023, no longer 
provides exclusions from checking the prescription drug monitoring program 
(PDMP) before prescribing a controlled drug.  Previously excluded were 
controlled substances prescribed from an emergency room, for acute and less 
than 3-day supply without refill, treating post-operative pain less than or equal 
to a 3-day supply with no refills, terminal disease receiving hospice or palliative 
care or the PDMP is non-functional.  All controlled dental prescriptions are to 
be checked on the PDMP. 
iv. 
The Hawaii Revised Statute §329-38.5 repealed June 30, 2023, required an 
informed consent process between prescribing provider and qualifying opioid 
therapy patient, if opioid treatment is greater than 3 months, prescribed 
benzodiazepine and opioids together, opioids that exceed 90 morphine 
equivalent doses. 
v. 
The SUPPORT Act [Social Security Act Section 1944 (42 USC 1396w-3a)] 
beginning October 1, 2021, requires each covered provider to check the 
Patient Drug history through the PDMP.  Dr. Lumeng shared that provider 

MINUTES OF REMOTE MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
August 14, 2024 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 4 
education is preferred over change in the current controlled drugs formulary 
or quantity limits. 
vi. 
No public testimony was shared.  No motion was made. 
 
V. 
State of Hawai‘i Organ and Tissue Transplant (SHOTT) Program was presented by 
Gary Peton. 
 
A. Expensive drug claims greater than $1,000 for the second quarter 2024: 
1. No outliers.  Dr. Honbo explained that when claims are billed for proper 
units, the greater than $25,000 limit is triggered for manual review and 
authorization.  Otherwise, an incorrectly billed claim can be bypassed and 
not viewed as an outlier.  Gary Peton explained that a quantity limit can be 
placed on the drug to require the correct units processing to payment or else 
trigger a manual review. 
2. Few new oncology drugs and Dr. Honbo shared that all new clinically 
approved drugs are high in cost. 
 
B. Medication profile reviews for Calendar Year 2023: 
1. High volume utilizers were seen with antibiotics, antifungals, and 
immunosuppressant therapies due to the nature of the SHOTT program.  
Nothing unusual was noted. 
2. A high-cost user found to have a $18,000/month oncology drug for 9 months. 
3. High denial of claims occurred for a compounding claim and for Medicare 
crossover eligibility. 
i. The compounding pharmacy claim entry was not following 
established procedures and triggering electronic denials:  Manual 
billing on paper claims is required. 
ii. Dr. Honbo explained that if a beneficiary does not have Medicare 
Part D with Part B, the crossover claim will be denied. 
C. There was no public testimony on New Business.  No motion was made. 
 
VI. 
U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Annual Drug Use Review Survey:  Prescription 
Drug Monitoring Program reports will be refined.  The vendor is not able to produce 
needed data for Hawaii or for many states. 
 
VII. 
The next DUR Board Meeting is Wednesday, November 20, 2024.  There was no public 
testimony.  Without further discussion, it was moved to adjourn the meeting by 
Wendel Au and seconded by Eddie Fox.  The motion passed unanimously with no 
opposition and no abstentions.  The meeting was adjourned at 12:57 pm. 
