STATE: Hawaii
URL: https://medquest.hawaii.gov/content/dam/formsanddocuments/pharmacy/DRAFT_Meeting%20Minutes%205-13-2026.pdf
ROLE: linked: Meeting Minutes Draft
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
JOSH GREEN, M.D.
GOVERNOR  
KE KIAʻĀINA  
  
  
 
 
  
STATE OF HAWAII  
KA MOKUʻĀINA O HAWAIʻI  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES  
KA ʻOIHANA MĀLAMA LAWELAWE KANAKA  
Office of the Director  
P. O. Box 339  
Honolulu, Hawaii 96809-0339  
JOSEPH CAMPOS II
ACTING DIRECTOR  
 LUNA HOʻOKELE KŪIKAWĀ 
  
  
TRISTA SPEER 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  
KA HOPE LUNA HOʻOKELE  
   
  
 
 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
Med-QUEST Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
 
Date: Wednesday, May 13, 2026 
 
Time:  12:00 P.M. (Noon) 
 
Remote Meeting Location: Teams Meeting participation for members and the public: 
https://events.gcc.teams.microsoft.com/event/5dfd6dd7-a838-4761-b97e-
650b1a489f6a@3847dec6-63b2-43f9-a6d0-58a40aaa1a10 
 
In-Person Location:  
Kakuhihewa Building Conference Rooms 577A and 577B 601 Kamokila Blvd., Kapolei, Hawaii 
96707 
 
Members Present: 
 
Dr. James Lumeng, Chair, Physician 
Miki Lei Morita, Pharmacist 
Kelsey Kong Trujillo, Pharmacist 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Physician 
Dr. Greg Yuen, Physician 
Denise Oshiro, Pharmacist 
Corey Okuno, Medical Service Representative 
 
Members Absent:  
Wendell Au, Vice-Chair, Pharmacist 
Reed Muraoka, Pharmacist 
 
Staff present:  
 
Erin Gomez, Clinical Standards Office (CSO) Office Assistant 
 
Denise Oshiro, CSO DUR Coordinator Pharmacist 
 
Dr. Curtis Toma, Medical Director 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
 
Ranjani Starr, CSO Administrator 
 
Loren Halog, Hele Imua Intern 
Alfred Herrera, Business Tech Analyst (HAO) 
 
Mike Mau, Systems Office (SO) Information Technology Specialist 
 
 
Public Guests: Gary Peton (Conduent), Lynette Honbo (Conduent), Herbert Starr (Acadia), Matt 
Scheffield (Ascendis Pharma), Lori Howarth (Bayer), Ryan Cotton (Genetech), Lee Stout (Chiesi), 
Miranda Ryzenman (Artia Solutions), and Sergio Mayorga (Concis Labs). 
 
I. 
Chair Lumeng called the meeting to order at 12:02pm.  Denise Oshiro proceeded 
with a call of the DUR Board Members.  The board members were informed to 
declare if they were not alone.  Each board member declared they were alone 
except Denise Oshiro, Dr. Toma, and Corey Okuno, who were present in the meeting 
room.  Other guests of the DUR Board present and declared alone: Gary Peton, 
Conduent Government Healthcare, Pharmacist and Dr. Lynette Honbo, Conduent 
Government Healthcare, Medical Consultant.  Quorum was established with six 
members present.  New DUR Board Member Corey Okuno was presented, and 
shared additional personal background during his introduction.  
II. 
The February 11, 2026, meeting minutes were reviewed by the Board.  There was no 
public testimony.  With no opposition and abstentions, the February 11, 2026, 
minutes were accepted and approved.  
III. 
Old Business (Updates) by Denise Oshiro 
A. Reminder for current board members to give notification of interest to extend 
their term for up to three years.  Med-QUEST Division (MQD) needs to submit 
their request for approval. 
B. (Board member Miki Morita entered the meeting.)  The Federal Substance Use-
Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment Act 
(SUPPORT Act), Section 5042, implemented on October 1, 2021, requires 
Medicaid providers to check the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP) 
site for members’ prescription drug history before prescribing controlled 
substances.  Each year, MQD must report to U.S. Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid (CMS) in an Annual Survey, the percentage of providers who checked 
PDMP before prescribing a controlled substance.  The issue still remains where 
MQD is not authorized by Hawaii law to query the PDMP to audit for compliance 
with this SUPPORT Act requirement.  Since Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2023, MQD 
has worked in conjunction with Narcotics Enforcement Division (NED) to obtain 
the most accurate percentage, without releasing protected health information in 
the methodology.  In 2027, MQD will continue to seek legislative approval to 
allow the state to query the PDMP.  Until then, MQD is considering self-
attestation surveys when providers renew their contract with the five Managed 
Care Organizations (MCOs) every 3 years, and with MQD every 5 years.  MQD 
would also like to collaborate with NED, and possibly other licensing boards, 
such as the Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs (DCCA) Board of 
Medicine, for implications and remediation for not complying with PDMP 
requirements.  MQD is focused on promoting one hundred percent of providers 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
checking PDMP in an effort aimed at enhancing patient safety and reducing the 
potential for prescription drug abuse.   
No public testimony.  Board member Dr. Greg Yuen suggested that the pharmacy 
should do an audit at the point of sale, to make sure the provider checked the 
PDMP prior to dispensing the controlled substance and not dispense the 
prescription if it wasn’t checked.  He commented that it would catch non-
compliance in real-time, instead of retroactively, when the prescription has 
already been dispensed.  (At this point, the audio and visual from the projection 
system for the in-person attendees was lost.  Audio/visual capability was still 
available through a laptop computer; however, in-person testimony was 
unavailable for approximately five minutes until the equipment was reset.  
Video, audio, and microphone continued without interruptions without 
interruption for those attending virtually).   During the five-minute reset, Ranjani 
Starr, MQD Clinical Standards Administrator, attending virtually, commented 
that the legal statute does not have a requirement for pharmacies to audit 
providers before filling the prescription, and the law falls under the NED, and not 
MQD.   The best that MQD can do is increase enforcement after the fact by 
continuing our legislative efforts to allow MQD and the health plans to query the 
PDMP.  (The in-person room microphone and audio/video projection were 
restored at this time).   There was no further public or board testimony. 
C. Dental Program Highlights for 2025 
1. Fluoride continues to be covered under prescription with chewable tablets, 
drops, multi-vitamin with fluoride in chewable tablets and drops, and a 
fluoride rinse.  
2. Overall dental claims decreased slightly from 2024 to 2025, as well as a 
decrease in total spend and average spend per prescription.  
3. Controlled substance claims increased slightly from 10% to 11% from 2024 to 
2025.  A dentist outlier for controlled substance prescriptions in calendar 
year 2025 was discussed.  Amongst the total of 2,983 controlled substance 
claims prescribed by approximately 175 Medicaid contracted dentists, this 
one dentist accounted for over one-third of these, with 1,043 opioid 
controlled substance claims.  In reviewing 35 of this dentist’s chart notes 
from Hawaii Dental Service (HDS), there was no documentation of first line 
non-opioid failure or contraindication, and no documentation of opioid 
necessity or risk factors.   In most cases, there was a bundle prescribed, 
which included an antibiotic, chlorhexidine rinse, a Non-Steroidal Anti-
Inflammatory Drug (NSAID), and an opioid/acetaminophen combination, all 
prescribed together.  
Per 2024 American Dental Association (ADA) guidelines, for adults and 
adolescents, for management of toothaches, simple tooth extractions, and 
up to surgical post-op procedure pain, first line therapy is typically an NSAID 
or NSAID plus acetaminophen.   If NSAID is contraindicated, then a higher 
starting dose of acetaminophen is suggested.  In rare instances when post-
procedural pain using NSAID or NSAID plus acetaminophen is inadequate, 
then consider adding a combination opioid + acetaminophen tablet.   Just-in-

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
case prescriptions for breakthrough pain with an opioid prescription are NOT 
recommended, with extra caution for teens and young adults due to higher 
risk of opioid misuse.  
American Association of Endodontists recommends opioid use should be 
reserved for limited circumstances when a non-opioid therapy is 
contraindicated.  
The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Dental pain 
guidelines are similar to ADA guidelines but adds risk assessment should be 
considered for comorbidities such as sleep apnea, renal/hepatic insufficiency, 
mental health, or substance abuse, and to offer naloxone if overdose risk is 
present.  CDC guidelines also include chart documentation which assesses 
opioid necessity, duration, and patient risk factors. 
Chair Lumeng asked Gary Peton how MQD has handled outlier prescribers in 
the past.  Gary Peton answered that MQD would normally send out a written 
statement, reminding them of ADA/CDC guidelines.  Dr. Yuen asked what has 
been done by HDS so far in this particular case.  Denise Oshiro answered that 
nothing has been done further than disseminating the 35 charts to MQD for 
review.  Dr. Toma mentioned that twice in the past, MQD called two 
different dentists to let them know they were on MQD’s tracking radar for 
outlier activity, and behavior changed by the next quarter.  Dr. Toma said we 
could have initial outreach be from either an HDS dentist or our MQD dentist 
speak to the outlier dentist.  
Dr. Yuen asked if remediation would ever get to a level of Regulated 
Industries Complaint Office (RICO).  Dr. Toma answered that there would 
need to be an outreach done first.  Dr. Yuen commented that anyone can lay 
a complaint, which is severe, and not saying we should, but that could be an 
option.  Denise Oshiro stated that this outlier dentist discussion will be 
updated further at the next board meeting.  
D. State of Hawaii Organ and Tissue Transplant (SHOTT) Program highlights for 2025 
(Presented by Gary Peton, Conduent Government Healthcare Pharmacist) 
Overall claims for 2025 increased slightly from 2024, and overall cost per 
prescription decreased by approximately 28 percent from 2024 to 2025.  This 
may be due to more generics entering the market for transplant indication.  Gary 
showcased one outlier medication in 2025 in which a hospital overbilled five 
claims for approximately $12,500 each.  This was discovered through retroactive 
DUR review by Conduent, and dollars are currently being recouped from the 
hospital.  
E. Office of Youth Services (OYS) Highlights for 2025 
Of note, claims have increased about fifty percent from 2024 to 2025, with total 
spend increasing almost ninety percent.  
 
 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AGENCY 
F. Naloxone nasal trends for 2025 
Prescriptions have been steady from 2024 to 2025.  Over the Counter (OTC) 
naloxone nasal has become more accessible from 2024, including naloxone 
vending machines at various places on Oahu, such as at the Hawaii Health & 
Harm Reduction Center on 677 Ala Moana Blvd, and on outer islands (Google for 
all current vending machine locations).  MQD strives for increased accessibility to 
naloxone for anyone wishing to have access.  Some possible means may be 
through co-prescribing naloxone mandates, for those with opioid prescriptions, 
or those prescriptions above a certain Morphine Milliequivalent per day dosing.  
MQD will also focus on naloxone accessibility for those with a history of Opioid 
Use Disorder (OUD) and coming out of an inpatient setting like a state hospital or 
prison, where unintentional overdose risk is greatest.  In addition, MQD is 
working on updating provider fee schedules, to include reimbursement for 
pharmacists who may prescribe and dispense naloxone under Hawaii Revised 
Statutes (HRS) 461-11.8.  Overall, there’s no harm in increasing naloxone 
accessibility, and any lives saved from opioid overdose would be a win.  
IV. 
New Business 
A. Proposal to update DUR Board member bylaws 
Since this Fee-For-Service (FFS) DUR Board focuses primarily on two programs 
that FFS covers, which are the Dental Program, and the SHOTT Program, a 
proposal was made to include a licensed and actively practicing dentist to the 
board.  Currently, the bylaws state: four persons licensed and engaged in the 
practice of medicine in the state; four persons licensed and actively practicing 
pharmacy in the state; and one person actively practicing as a medical service 
representative in the state.  A dentist can bring their subject matter expertise to 
the board, including clinically appropriate prescribing of covered outpatient 
drugs, and quality assurance.  The board is seeking an additional member, since 
it currently contains three licensed physicians, and bylaws require four.  
However, the proposal was made to edit the bylaws to include three licensed 
physician members, four licensed pharmacist members, one licensed dentist 
member, and one medical service representative member.  There were no 
comments from the public, and the board voted, with no abstentions.  
Therefore, MQD will move forward with the change to the bylaws. 
V. 
In-person and virtual attendees were given the opportunity for public testimony 
regarding topics pertinent to the FFS DUR Board.  There was no public testimony or 
board member testimony shared.  
VI. 
Next meeting will be held on Wednesday, August 12, 2026. 
VII. 
Adjourn 
A. Dr. Lumeng made the motion to adjourn the meeting. With no abstentions, the 
meeting was adjourned at 12:50 PM. 
 
 
