STATE: Ohio\nURL: https://codes.ohio.gov/assets/laws/revised-code/authenticated/51/5164/5164.7510/10-17-2019/5164.7510-10-17-2019.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-5164.7510\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nPage 1
 
Ohio Revised Code
 
Section 5164.7510 Pharmacy and therapeutics committee.
 
Effective: October 17, 2019
Legislation: House Bill 166 - 133rd General Assembly
 
 
(A) There is hereby established the pharmacy and therapeutics committee of the department of
medicaid. The committee shall assist the department with developing and maintaining a preferred
drug list for the medicaid program.
 
The committee shall review and recommend to the medicaid director the drugs that should be
included on the preferred drug list. The recommendations shall be made based on the evaluation of
competent evidence regarding the relative safety, efficacy, and effectiveness of prescribed drugs
within a class or classes of prescribed drugs.
 
(B) The committee shall consist of ten members and shall be appointed by the medicaid director. The
director shall seek recommendations for membership from relevant professional organizations. A
candidate for membership recommended by a professional organization shall have professional
experience working with medicaid recipients.
 
The membership of the committee shall include:
 
(1) Three pharmacists licensed under Chapter 4729. of the Revised Code;
 
(2) Two doctors of medicine and two doctors of osteopathy who hold licenses issued under Chapter
4731. of the Revised Code, one of whom is a family practice physician;
 
(3) A registered nurse licensed under Chapter 4723. of the Revised Code;
 
(4) A pharmacologist who has a doctoral degree;
 
(5) A psychiatrist who holds a license to practice medicine and surgery or osteopathic medicine and
surgery issued under Chapter 4731. of the Revised Code and specializes in psychiatry.
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPage 2
(C) The committee shall elect from among its members a chairperson. Five committee members
constitute a quorum.
 
The committee shall establish guidelines necessary for the committee's operation.
 
The committee may establish one or more subcommittees to investigate and analyze issues consistent
with the duties of the committee under this section. The subcommittees may submit proposals
regarding the issues to the committee and the committee may adopt, reject, or modify the proposals.
 
A vote by a majority of a quorum is necessary to make recommendations to the director. In the case
of a tie, the chairperson shall decide the outcome.
 
(D) The director shall act on the committee's recommendations not later than thirty days after the
recommendation is posted on the department's web site under division (F) of this section. If the
director does not accept a recommendation of the committee, the director shall present the basis for
this determination not later than fourteen days after making the determination or at the next
scheduled meeting of the committee, whichever is sooner.
 
(E) An interested party may request, and shall be permitted, to make a presentation or submit written
materials to the committee during a committee meeting. The presentation or other materials shall be
relevant to an issue under consideration by the committee and any written material, including a
transcript of testimony to be given on the day of the meeting, may be submitted to the committee in
advance of the meeting.
 
(F) The department shall post the following on the department's web site:
 
(1) Guidelines established by the committee under division (C) of this section;
 
(2) A detailed committee agenda not later than fourteen days prior to the date of a regularly
scheduled meeting and not later than seventy-two hours prior to the date of a special meeting called
by the committee;
 
(3) Committee recommendations not later than seven days after the meeting at which the
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nPage 3
recommendation was approved;
 
(4) The director's final determination as to the recommendations made by the committee under this
section.\n