STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/open-minutes-08-15-24.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: August 15, 2024
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: August 15, 2024 
Chairperson: Jason Kruse 
Vice-Chairperson, Chuck Wadle, assisted in running the meeting as Jason Kruse was unable to attend. 
Time: 9:30 a.m. to 11:35 a.m. 
Location: Grimes State Office Building Room B100, 400 E 14th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319 
Committee Members Present: Charles Wadle, D.O.; Jason Kessler, M.D.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; 
Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; Tricia White, R.N. (via Zoom); and Jennifer Doudna, Pharm.D., R.Ph. (via Zoom). 
(Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician, 1 Physician Assistant) 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy 
Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Jacquelyn Hedlund, M.D., MS (via Zoom); Paige Clayton, Pharm.D. (via 
Zoom); Erin Halverson, R.Ph.; and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Emily Rogers, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Chuck Wadle called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Chuck Wadle asked that each committee and DHHS/Medicaid staff member introduce themselves 
to the public. Rachel Kinn made the motion to approve the April minutes, and Lacey Ferguson 
seconded. The motion passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of interest 
disclosures. This will be Dr. Kessler’s last meeting, and he was thanked for his years of service 
to the committee. Dr. Hedlund is also retiring at the end of August, so this will be her last meeting. 
II. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): A fax blast sent to providers since the last P&T 
Meeting in April, to notify them of preferred drug list changes, was reviewed. Due to the 
resolution of availability issues for oseltamivir, Tamiflu capsules and Tamiflu oral suspension 
will become non-preferred on the PDL effective August 30, 2024. 
III. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): There are no issues to report, but Optum is monitoring the 
effects and trends of the AMP cap removal effective in January 2024, as PDL changes could arise 
due to manufacturers’ responses to that change. CMS had originally predicted a 5% increase to 
the Medicaid budget, but it’s looking like it will be more like 10-12%, particularly in some highly 
utilized areas. Optum staff have been working with manufacturers on supplemental rebates to 
attempt to bring down costs. 
IV. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided copies of the 
informational letters sent to providers notifying them of Pharmacy Program and PDL changes 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
since the last meeting, including notice of reinstatement of member copays effective July 1, 2024, 
following the end of the Covid public health emergency (PHE) during which they had been 
removed. Opill oral contraceptive was added to the over-the-counter (OTC) covered drug list. 
The committee also received copies of the letters sent from the DUR Commission to DHHS 
following their meetings on May 1st and August 7th, the latter of which had recommended changes 
to the prior authorization criteria for: Antidiabetic Non-Insulin Agents; Biologicals for Axial 
Spondyloarthritis; and Biologics for Plaque Psoriasis. Those recommendations have been 
approved by the state and will go into effect on October 1, 2024. 
V. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): Pending CMS approval, DHHS was given a budget increase allowing for 
a change to the dispensing fee making it $10.63 per prescription, separate from the ongoing cost 
of dispensing survey. There was also a change to Iowa Code Chapter 21, requiring committee 
meetings provide a hybrid or virtual/remote option for committee members as well as public 
attendees, so DHHS is working to set up options for meetings going forward. 
VI. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Iowa Medicaid received approval to move forward with a rule 
change to allow a 90-day supply per prescription, rather than the 31 days currently allowed. 
Effective October 1, 2024, this change will go into effect for certain reviewed drugs, mostly 
generic maintenance medications, and the list will be posted this month. A cost of dispensing 
survey was sent out to providers in May, with responses due back August 14, 2024. Data will be 
analyzed in preparation for the next legislative session and a proposed requested change to the 
dispensing fee. 
VII. 
Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comment from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Representing 
Drug/Topic 
Derrick Grass 
Novo Nordisk 
Wegovy 
David Kupperman 
SpringWorks Therapeutics 
Ogsiveo 
Mary Claire Wohletz 
Merck 
Winrevair 
Kevin Borth 
Day One Biopharmaceuticals 
Ojemda 
Member Comments Received: None 
Provider Comments Received: Winrevair, Winrevair, Winrevair 
Manufacturer Comments Received: Adbry, Filsuvez, Opsynvi 
At 10:04, Rachel Kinn motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Jason Kessler seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 10:45. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
VIII. PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 2) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Tradjenta to Preferred (removal of PA conditions) 
2. Januvia to Preferred (removal of PA conditions) 
3. Jentadueto to Preferred (removal of PA conditions) 
4. Janumet to Preferred (removal of PA conditions) 
5. Janumet XR to Preferred (removal of PA conditions) 
6. Ventavis to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
Rachel Kinn motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Jason Kessler seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
IX. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Hedlund and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Hedlund reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Erin Halverson read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Eohilia- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Filsuvez- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
3. Ogsiveo- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
4. Ojemda- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
5. Opsynvi- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
6. Rezdiffra- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
7. Rivfloza- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
8. Spevigo Prefilled Syringe- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Voquezna- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
10. Voquezna Pak- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
11. Voydeya- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
12. Wegovy- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions (covered 
indication only: to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adults with 
established cardiovascular disease and either obesity or overweight); DUR currently 
developing PA criteria. 
13. Winrevair- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
14. Zymfentra- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Lacey Ferguson motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Rachel Kinn seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly 
Released 
Generic 
Drugs 
and 
New 
Drug 
Dosage 
Forms/Strengths/ 
Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Deflazacort 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Gabapentin ER Tablets 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Mirabegron 
Non-Preferred 
Nitroglycerin Rectal Ointment 
Non-Preferred 
Sitagliptin 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Alvaiz 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hydroxym 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Kionex 
Non-Preferred 
Libervant 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Myhibbin 
Non-Preferred 
Rextovy 
Preferred 
Sovuna 
Non-Preferred 
Jason Kessler motioned to accept the recommendations in both tables above. Rachel Kinn 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
XI. 
Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH) Staff Presentation: Dr. Hedlund reviewed the 
“Reassessing Human Adipose Tissue” article from The New England Journal of Medicine, written 
by Aaron M. Cypess, M.D., Ph.D. 
A motion was made by Jason Kessler to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Rachel Kinn, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 11:35 a.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for November 
21, 2024.