STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/open-minutes-082125.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: August 21, 2025
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: August 21, 2025 
Chairperson: Jason Kruse 
Time: 9:30 a.m. to 12:02 p.m. 
Location: Virtual through Zoom 
Committee Members Present: Jason Kruse, D.O.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; 
Tricia McComb, R.N.; Dawn Schissel, M.D.; Fadi Yacoub, M.D.; Charles Wadle, D.O.; and Jennifer 
Doudna, Pharm.D., R.Ph. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician Assistant) 
Committee Members Absent: None 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy 
Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Roberta Capp, M.D., MHS; Paige Clayton, Pharm.D.; Erin Halverson, R.Ph.; 
Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; Pam Smith, R.Ph.; and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Emily Rogers, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Jason Kruse called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Jason Kruse asked that each committee member introduce themselves to the public. Dawn 
Schissel made the motion to approve the April minutes, and Fadi Yacoub seconded. The motion 
passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of interest disclosures. 
II. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): Providers have received one notice since the last 
committee meeting. Due to the discontinuation of Nuvaring, etonogestrel-ee vaginal ring will be 
preferred on the Iowa Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL). 
III. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): There are no current issues to report. The Federal “Big 
Beautiful Bill” that was passed does have implications for Medicaid Pharmacy programs that 
could cause issues down the road, but there is nothing immediately pressing that needs to be done 
in response to that legislation or any recent tariff updates. The annual Sovereign States Drug 
Consortium (SSDC) Meeting in July went well, and resulting contract offers for calendar year 
2026 will be reviewed at the November P&T Meeting. 
IV. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided copies of 
Informational Letters 2685-MC-FFS-D and 2686-MC-FFS-D sent to providers notifying them of 
Pharmacy Program and PDL changes since the last meeting. The committee also received copies 
of the letters sent from the DUR Commission to DHHS following their meetings on May 7th and 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
August 6th, which had recommended changes to the prior authorization criteria for: Aprocitentan 
(Tryvio); CNS Stimulants and Atomoxetine; Letermovir (Prevymis); Peanut (Arachis hypogaea) 
Allergen Powder-DNFP (Palforzia); Oxybate Products; Tirzepatide (Zepbound) for OSA; 
removal of PA criteria for Direct Oral Anticoagulants; a ProDUR quantity limit for Eliquis; 
Adenosine Triphosphate-Citrate Lyase (ACL) Inhibitors; Anti-Diabetic Non-Insulin Agents; 
Dupilumab (Dupixent); Givinostat (Duvyzat); IL-5 Antagonists; Janus Kinase (JAK) Inhibitors; 
Lebrikizumab-lbkz 
(Ebglyss); 
Nemolizumab-ilto 
(Nemluvio); 
Olezarsen 
(Tryngolza); 
Omalizumab (Xolair); and Palopegteriparatide (Yorvipath). Additionally, the DUR Commission 
recommends a ProDUR edit for the concurrent use of a DPP-4 inhibitor containing agent with a 
GLP-1 receptor agonist containing agent. 
V. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): The dispensing fee increase was not approved with the DHHS 
appropriations bill, so it will remain $10.63 per prescription. 
VI. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Lee Grossman will be the new Medicaid Director, effective 
September 2, 2025. He is an Iowa native and has been working for Wyoming Medicaid for the 
past 14 years. 
VII. 
Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comments from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Organization / Manufacturer Product 
Lauren Sumner 
Sanofi 
Qfitlia 
Jasmine Inman 
Teva 
Simlandi and Selarsdi 
Taha Khan 
Vertex 
Journavx 
Chris Dietrich 
ARS Pharmaceuticals 
Neffy 
Tania Gregorian 
BridgeBio 
Attruby 
Asma Sikder 
Axsome Therapeutics 
Symbravo 
Sarah Bellefeuille 
Novo Nordisk 
Wegovy 
Audrey Nguyen 
Springworks Therapeutics 
Gomekli 
Kristen Duffey 
Novartis 
Vanrafia 
Rick Melbye 
UCB 
Bimzelx 
Elizabeth Lubelczyk 
Eli Lilly and Company 
Ebglyss 
Member Comments Received: None 
Written Provider Comments Received: Symbravo 
Written Manufacturer Comments Received: Sevenfact 
At 10:26, Chuck Wadle motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Dawn Schissel seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 11:06. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
VIII. PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 2) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Neffy nasal spray to Preferred 
2. Buspirone 30mg tablets to Preferred 
3. Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution to Preferred 
4. Doxycycline hyclate 50mg & 100mg capsules to Preferred 
5. Doxycycline hyclate 20mg & 100mg tablets to Preferred 
6. Doxycycline monohydrate 50mg & 100mg tablets to Preferred 
7. Nystatin cream to Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Dawn Schissel seconded. 
The decision was unanimous. 
IX. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Capp and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Capp reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Erin Halverson read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Attruby- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Avmapki Fakzynja CO-PACK- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with 
Conditions (Select Oncology Agents) 
3. Ebglyss- Recommend status on the PDL as Preferred with Conditions 
4. Gomekli- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
5. Itovebi- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
6. Journavx- Recommend status on the PDL as Preferred (qty limit 14-day supply per 60 days) 
7. Nemluvio- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
8. Qfitlia- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Revuforj- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
10. Romvimza- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
11. Sofdra- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
12. Tryngolza- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
13. Vanrafia- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations above. Dawn Schissel seconded, and the 
decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly 
Released 
Generic 
Drugs 
and 
New 
Drug 
Dosage 
Forms/Strengths/ 
Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Auranofin 
Non-Preferred 
Chenodal 
Non-Preferred 
Eltrombopag 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Emtricitabine-Rilpivirine-Tenofovir 
Non-Preferred 
Eslicarbazepine 
Non-Preferred 
Exenatide 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Nilotinib 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Perampanel 
Non-Preferred 
Rivaroxaban 
Non-Preferred 
Ticagrelor 
Non-Preferred 
Umeclidinium-Vilanterol 
Non-Preferred 
Ustekinumab 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Ustekinumab-aekn 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Ustekinumab-ttwe 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations in the table above. Dawn Schissel 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Adalimumab-ryvk 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Bucapsol 
Non-Preferred 
Edurant Ped Tab 
Preferred 
Evrysdi Tabs 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hemiclor 
Non-Preferred 
Inzirqo 
Non-Preferred 
Ivermectin 6mg 
Non-Preferred 
Khindivi Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Onapgo 
Non-Preferred 
Raldesy Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Renthyroid 
Non-Preferred 
Symbravo 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Tezruly Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Vyvgart Hytrulo 
Non-Preferred 
Xromi Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations in both tables above. Lacey Ferguson 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
XI. 
Hemophilia Treatment Staff Presentation: Dr. Capp presented a PowerPoint outlining treatment 
for Hemophilia A and B. 
A motion was made by Fadi Yacoub to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Dawn Schissel, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 12:02 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for November 
20, 2025.