STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/open-minutes-041725.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: April 17, 2025
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: April 17, 2025 
Chairperson: Jason Kruse 
Time: 9:31 a.m. to 12:20 p.m. 
Location: Grimes State Office Building Room B100, 400 E 14th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319 
Committee Members Present: Jason Kruse, D.O.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; 
Tricia McComb, R.N. (via Zoom); Dawn Schissel, M.D.; Fadi Yacoub, M.D.; and Jennifer Doudna, 
Pharm.D., R.Ph. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician Assistant) 
Committee Members Absent: Charles Wadle, D.O. 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy 
Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Roberta Capp, M.D., MHS (via Zoom); Paige Clayton, Pharm.D. (via Zoom); 
Erin Halverson, R.Ph.; Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; Pam Smith, R.Ph. (via Zoom); and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Emily Rogers, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Jason Kruse called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Jason Kruse asked that each committee and DHHS/Medicaid staff member introduce themselves 
to the public. Dawn Schissel made the motion to approve the November minutes, and Fadi 
Yacoub seconded. The motion passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of 
interest disclosures. 
II. 
Annual P&T Committee Chairperson and Vice Chairperson Elections: Dawn Schissel nominated 
Jason Kruse to remain as Chairperson. Rachel Kinn and Fadi Yacoub both seconded, and all 
members were in favor. Jennifer Doudna volunteered to be Vice Chairperson, and Rachel Kinn 
seconded this nomination. This decision was also unanimous. 
III. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): Providers have received two notices since the last 
committee meeting. Due to the discontinuation of Carafate oral suspension, Sucralfate oral 
suspension changed to preferred on the PDL effective 12/13/24. Lagevrio is not approved by the 
FDA for any use, including treating COVID-19. It was issued under an Emergency Use 
Authorization (EUA), however due to the end of the public health emergency, it is no longer a 
covered product by Iowa Medicaid. Paxlovid continues to be a payable product by Iowa Medicaid 
without prior authorization. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
IV. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): There are no current issues to report, but likely will be in the 
future due to impacts to Medicaid brought on by executive orders or other changes issued by the 
Trump administration in their efforts to cut spending. Drew Snyder, who will be in charge of 
Medicaid at the Federal level, was the former Executive Director of Mississippi Medicaid. Paige 
Clayton has worked with him in the past, and has confidence that he understands the mission and 
purpose of Medicaid and will be a good advocate for the program. Dr. Oz, just confirmed as CMS 
Administrator, has already issued a dozen initiatives in his first two weeks. The pharmaceutical 
industry has traditionally been excluded from tariffs, but that is likely to change. A lot of 
pharmaceutical companies do currently have dependency on manufacturing in foreign countries. 
Several prominent manufacturers have pledged initiatives to bring production back to the United 
States. Paige Clayton has been told that there is enough pharmaceutical product already within 
the U.S. to meet the needs of all Americans for at least six months, so there shouldn’t be any 
immediate shortages should tariff changes impact production or imports. 
V. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided copies of 
Informational Letters 2647-MC-FFS-D and 2668-MC-FFS-D sent to providers notifying them of 
Pharmacy Program and PDL changes since the last meeting. The committee also received a copy 
of the letter sent from the DUR Commission to DHHS following their meeting on February 5th, 
which had recommended changes to the prior authorization criteria for: Dupilumab (Dupixent); 
Ensifentrine (Ohtuvayre); Incretin Mimetics for Non-Diabetes Indications; Select Preventative 
Migraine Treatments; Select Topical Agents; and Vonoprazan (Voquenza). 
VI. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): There were no new updates, as thus far all bills with potential impact 
introduced in the current legislative session have not made it out of the sub-committee. 
VII. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Results of the cost of dispensing survey increasing the 
dispensing fee from $10.63 to $11.37 per prescription are now available to the public and have 
been published on the state’s rate setting vendor Myers & Stauffer’s web page. This increase 
request is now in the governor’s recommendations for the DHHS budget currently being discussed 
in the legislative session. Pending budget approval, the new fee will be effective July 1, 2025. 
VIII. Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comments from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Organization / Manufacturer 
Product 
Tracey Maravilla 
Ascendis Pharma Inc 
Yorvipath 
Claire Elson 
Amgen 
Tezspire 
Suzanne Hensley 
Shorla Oncology 
Imkeldi 
John Deason 
Neurocrine Biosciences 
Crenessity 
Barbara Silvernail 
Luye Pharma 
Erzofri 
Amy Hornig 
Abbvie 
Vyalev 
Patrick Boland 
Bristol Myers Squibb 
Cobenfy 
Member Comments Received: None 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Written Provider Comments Received: Evrysdi tablets 
Written Manufacturer Comments Received: Aqneursa, Danziten, Nymalize 
At 10:25, Fadi Yacoub motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Dawn Schissel seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 11:25. 
IX. 
PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 2) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Tezspire to Preferred with Conditions 
2. Gvoke to Preferred 
3. Linzess 72mcg to Preferred with Conditions 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Rachel Kinn seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Capp and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Capp reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Erin Halverson read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Alhemo- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Alyftrek- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
3. Aqneursa- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
4. Cobenfy- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred Step 3; atypical antipsychotics 
step therapy requirements apply 
5. Crenessity- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
6. Duvyzat- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions (DUR to 
develop PA criteria) 
7. Hympavzi- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
8. Miplyffa- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Yorvipath- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
10. Zepbound- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions (covered 
indication only: treatment of moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea in adults with 
obesity); DUR currently developing PA criteria. 
Dawn Schissel motioned to accept the recommendations above, with the addition that Yorvipath 
be referred to the DUR Commission to develop prior authorization criteria per Rachel Kinn’s 
suggestion. Fadi Yacoub seconded, and the decision was unanimous. 
XI. 
Newly 
Released 
Generic 
Drugs 
and 
New 
Drug 
Dosage 
Forms/Strengths/ 
Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Levetiracetam ODT 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Memantine-Donepezil ER Caps 
Non-Preferred 
Mesna 
Non-Preferred 
Nimodipine Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Prucalopride 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Timolol Hemihydrate Ophthalmic Soln 
Non-Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations in the table above. Dawn Schissel 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Danziten Tabs 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Erzofri 
Preferred Step 2 
Femlyv 
Non-Preferred 
Gabarone 
Non-Preferred 
Hydrocortisone 2.5% Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Imkeldi Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Neffy Nasal Spray 
Non-Preferred 
Opipza Oral Film 
Non-Preferred Step 3 
Otulfi 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Potassium Chloride ER Tab 15 mEq 
Non-Preferred 
Pyzchiva 
Preferred with Conditions 
Radicava Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred 
RoxyBond 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Selarsdi 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Steqeyma 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Tramadol 75mg Tabs 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Vyalev Subcutaneous Injection 
Non-Preferred 
Yesintek 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Zituvimet 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Zituvimet XR 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Dawn Schissel motioned to accept the recommendations in both tables above. Jennifer Doudna 
seconded, and all members were in favor. However, though they agreed Neffy nasal spray be 
made non-preferred as recommended, the committee would like to bring it back for additional 
review at the next meeting in August. 
XII. 
Hypoparathyroid Treatment Staff Presentation: Dr. Capp presented a PowerPoint outlining 
treatment for this rare lifelong endocrine disorder, and Dr. Yacoub contributed additional 
prescriber perspective from his nephrology practice. 
A motion was made by Fadi Yacoub to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Dawn Schissel, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 12:20 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for August 
21, 2025.