STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/November%2016%2C%202023%20Open%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: November 16, 2023
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: November 16, 2023 
Chairperson: not yet elected 
Erin Halverson, Iowa Medicaid staff, assisted in running the meeting as the last chairperson was not re-
appointed to the committee for this term. Elections will take place at the next meeting in April. 
Time: 9:30 a.m. to 12:29 p.m. 
Location: Grimes State Office Building Room B100, 400 E 14th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319 
Committee Members Present: Jason Kessler, M.D.; Jennifer Doudna, Pharm.D., R.Ph.; Lacey Ferguson, 
Pharm.D.; Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; and Jason Kruse, D.O. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician, 1 Physician 
Assistant) 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy 
Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Jacquelyn Hedlund, M.D., MS; Paige Clayton, Pharm.D.; Erin Halverson, 
R.Ph.; Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Amerigroup Iowa; Emily Rogers, 
Iowa Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Erin Halverson called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Erin Halverson asked that each committee and DHHS/Medicaid staff member introduce 
themselves to the public. Rachel Kinn made the motion to approve the April minutes, and Jason 
Kruse seconded. The motion passed with no objections. The committee also approved minor 
changes to the P&T Committee By-Laws, mainly due to the Department of Human Services 
merging with the Department of Public Health to form the Department of Health and Human 
Services (DHHS). Jason Kessler made that motion, Rachel Kinn seconded, and all members were 
in favor. There were no new verbal conflict of interest disclosures. Forms were provided to the 
committee members so they could complete their annual disclosures. 
II. 
Follow-up from Last Meeting: At the April meeting, Dr. Kessler inquired about coverage of 
Imcivree. It was noted that it currently isn’t covered as Iowa’s current state plan reflects Iowa 
Medicaid does not cover drugs for weight loss. A change to this policy would require a state plan 
amendment and approved funding. It could, however, be considered under exception to policy 
(ETP). He requested information regarding how many ETPs have been submitted with outcome. 
Findings had been prepared for the August meeting, which was cancelled, with no additional 
follow-up since then. However, as of August, none of the FFS or MCO contractors had received 
any requests. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
III. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): The fax blasts sent to providers since the last P&T 
Meeting in April, to notify them of preferred drug list changes, were reviewed. Due to availability 
issues for methotrexate injection and albuterol products, Otrexup, Rasuvo, and Albuterol HFA 
inhalers were made preferred on the PDL. 
IV. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): The AMP cap removal, effective in January 2024, could cause 
PDL changes due to manufacturers’ responses to that change. Currently, it is possible for 
Medicaid programs to have a negative price for medications once all rebates are received from 
the manufacturers. There is a provision in the American Rescue Plan Act that removes what is 
currently a 100% average manufacturer price cap on these products for the federal rebates. As of 
today, if an inflationary component or best price provision of a federal rebate were to exceed 
100% of the manufacturer’s average manufacturing price, that is where it would currently be 
capped. However, within the American Rescue Plan Act beginning January 1, 2024, that would 
be removed, and the manufacturer would potentially have to pay a state for utilization of a product 
exceeding that price at which they are producing it. As a result, some manufacturers are making 
price reductions, while others are removing drugs from the market. Future PDL recommendations 
will have to take these changes into account, to make cost-effective decisions for the state. 
V. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): There were no updates. 
VI. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): There were no updates. 
VII. 
Iowa Medciaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Point of care testing for influenza and streptococcus A has 
been implemented for MCO Medicaid members, allowing pharmacists to test for those at 
pharmacies and also prescribe medications based on test results. Options for members with fee-
for-service Medicaid coverage are still being discussed. 
VIII. Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members and 
posted at http://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/public-comments, they heard oral public comment 
from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded manufacturer comments as they were 
received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Representing 
Drug/Topic 
Audrey Montoya 
Ascendis Pharma 
Skytrofa 
Bradley Jones 
Abbvie 
Ubrelvy 
Ralph Rivera 
Pharming Healthcare 
Joenja 
Lindsay Bebout 
Indivior 
Opvee 
Mark Sullivan 
Pierre Fabre Pharmaceuticals 
Hemangeol 
Sarah Sanders 
Novartis 
Cosentyx & Kesimpta 
Tobie Escher 
Intra Cellular Therapies 
Caplyta 
Timothy Birner 
Alkermes 
Lybalvi 
Nila Stevens 
Sanofi 
Dupixent & Altuviiio 
Eric Aguirre 
Astra Zeneca 
Fasenra 
Corey Hicks 
Amgen 
Ravicti 
Jeffrey Olearczyk 
Amgen 
Tezspire 
Kristi Totten 
Azurity Pharmaceuticals 
Triptodur 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Provider Comments Received: 
Altuviiio, Skytrofa, Sogroya, Daybue, Long-Acting Growth Hormones, Uzedy (2), Dupixent (2), 
Triptodur, Hemangeol 
Manufacturer Comments Received: 
Austedo XR, Sogroya, Altuviiio, Opvee, Daybue, Ubrelvy, Vraylar, Tyvaso, Krazati, Ngenla, 
Uzedy, Lupron Depot Ped, Pheburane, Siklos, Bonjesta, Endari, Xelstrym, Secuado, Rybelsus, 
Ozempic, Rexulti, Abilify Asimtufii, Konvomep, Adbry, Entyvio 
At 10:32, Jason Kessler motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential, and the motion passed with 
unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 11:45. 
IX. 
PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Dulera to Preferred. 
2. Qvar RediHaler to Preferred. 
3. Arnuity Ellipta to Preferred. 
4. Briviact tablets to Preferred. 
5. Emend oral suspension to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
6. Nucala Auto-Injector to Preferred with Conditions. 
7. Simponi to Preferred with Conditions. 
8. Orencia ClickJect to Preferred with Conditions. 
9. Xeljanz oral solution to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
10. Invega Hafyera to Preferred Step 2. 
11. Vraylar to Preferred Step 2. 
12. Trospium chloride to Preferred. 
13. Valcyte oral solution to Non-Preferred. 
14. Valganciclovir oral solution to Preferred. 
15. Zegalogue to Preferred (remove step through reconstitution product). 
16. Baqsimi to Preferred (remove step through reconstitution product). 
17. Orilissa to Preferred with Conditions. 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Jennifer Doudna seconded. 
The decision was unanimous. 
18. Mircera to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
19. Levofloxacin oral solution to Non-Preferred. 
20. Febuxostat to Preferred with Conditions. 
21. Releuko to Preferred with Conditions. 
22. Granix to Preferred with Conditions. 
23. Nyvepria to Preferred with Conditions. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
24. Fulphila to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
25. Genotropin to Preferred with Conditions. 
26. Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate to Non-Preferred due to risk of adverse events. 
27. SPS to Non-Preferred due to risk of adverse events. 
28. Aubagio to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
29. Fingolimod to Preferred with Conditions. 
30. Gilenya to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
31. Morphine rectal suppositories to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
32. Oxycodone oral concentrate to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
33. Tobramycin and Dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension to Preferred. 
34. Quillivant XR to Preferred with Conditions. 
35. Qelbree to Preferred with Conditions. 
36. Ermeza oral solution to Preferred with prior authorization. 
Jennifer Doudna motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Jason Kessler seconded. 
The decision was unanimous. 
X. 
RDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 5) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Prezcobix to Preferred. 
Rachel Kinn motioned to accept the recommendation above, and Jason Kruse seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
XI. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Hedlund and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 6) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Complete new drug monographs can be found on the November 
meeting page at http://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/schedule_page/november-16-2023. Dr. 
Hedlund reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, and then Erin Halverson read 
through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Altuviiio- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Daybue- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
3. Filspari- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
4. Inpefa- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
5. Jaypirca- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
6. Joenja- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
7. Krazati- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
8. Miebo- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Ngenla- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
10. Odactra- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
11. Orserdu- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
12. Relyvrio- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
13. Sogroya- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
14. Tezspire- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
15. Vanflyta- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
16. Veozah- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
17. Vowst- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
18. Zavzpret- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
19. Zoryve- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above as amended, and Jennifer Doudna 
seconded. The decision was unanimous. 
XII. 
Newly Released Generic Drugs (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Adalimumab fkjp 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Adalimumab adaz 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Baclofen Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Betaine Anhydrous Oral Powder 
Non-Preferred 
Bismuth Subcit – Metronidazole- Tetracycline 
Non-Preferred 
Brimonidine Ophth Sol 0.1% 
Non-Preferred 
Budesonide Rectal Foam 
Non-Preferred 
Darunavir 
Preferred 
Dichlorphenamide 
Non-Preferred 
Gefitinib 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Lisdexamfetamine 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Methsuximide 
Non-Preferred 
Saxagliptin 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Saxagliptin-Metformin ER 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Teriflunomide 
Preferred with Conditions 
Tiotropium Bromide Monohydrate Inhal Cap 
Non-Preferred 
Topiramate Cap ER Sprinkle 
Non-Preferred 
Rachel Kinn motioned to accept the recommendations above. Jason Kessler seconded, and all 
members were in favor. 
XIII. New Drug Dosage Forms/Strengths/Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following 
recommendations were made to maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Abilify Asimtufii 
Preferred Step 2 
Adthyza 
Non-Preferred 
Airsupra 
Non-Preferred 
Amjevita 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Atorvaliq Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
--- Page 6 ---
6 
Austedo XR 
Preferred with Conditions 
Cyltezo 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hadlima 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hulio 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hyrimoz 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Idacio 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Iyuzeh 
Non-Preferred 
Konvomep Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Liqrev 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Opvee 
Non-Preferred 
Pradaxa Oral Packet 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Rezvoglar KwikPen 
Non-Preferred 
Uzedy 
Non-Preferred Step 3 
Yuflyma 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Yusimry 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Zolpidem 7.5mg Capsule 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above. Jason Kessler and Jennifer Doudna 
both seconded, and all members were in favor. 
A motion was made by Jason Kruse to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Rachel Kinn, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 12:29 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is tentatively set 
for April 18, 2024.