STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/open-minutes-11-21-24.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: November 21, 2024
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: November 21, 2024 
Chairperson: Jason Kruse 
Time: 9:31 a.m. to 1:42 p.m. 
Location: Grimes State Office Building Room B100, 400 E 14th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319 
Committee Members Present: Jason Kruse, D.O.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D. (via 
Zoom); Tricia McComb, R.N. (via Zoom); Dawn Schissel, M.D.; Fadi Yacoub, M.D.; and Jennifer Doudna, 
Pharm.D., R.Ph. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician Assistant) 
Committee Members Absent: Charles Wadle, D.O. 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy 
Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Roberta Capp, M.D., MHS; Paige Clayton, Pharm.D.; Erin Halverson, R.Ph.; 
Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; Pam Smith, R.Ph. (via Zoom); and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Emily Rogers, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa (via Zoom). 
Jason Kruse called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Jason Kruse asked that each committee and DHHS/Medicaid staff member introduce themselves 
to the public. Jennifer Doudna made the motion to approve the August minutes, and Fadi Yacoub 
seconded. The motion passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of interest 
disclosures. Forms were provided to the committee members so they could complete their annual 
disclosures. The committee also approved minor changes to the P&T Policies and Procedures, 
allowing virtual verbal public comment due to a policy change requiring that meetings have a 
virtual option for public attendance, and updating Medicaid contact email addresses. Fadi Yacoub 
made the motion to approve the proposed changes, Jennifer Doudna seconded, and all members 
were in agreement. 
II. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): There were no new notifications. The fax blast 
included in the committee binder by mistake had previously been reviewed at the August meeting. 
III. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): There are no issues to report, but Optum is monitoring the 
effects and trends of the AMP cap removal effective in January 2024, as PDL changes could arise 
due to manufacturers’ responses to that change. There have been a lot of pricing fluctuations and 
correcting readjustments as a result, and there will also be product discontinuations. On the third 
quarter data that just came out last week, things seem to have settled down. Optum staff have 
been working with manufacturers on supplemental rebates to attempt to bring down costs. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
IV. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided copies of 
Informational Letter 2625-MC-FFS-D sent to providers notifying them of Pharmacy Program and 
PDL changes since the last meeting, including the optional 90-day supply for select medications 
that went into effect October 1, 2024. The committee also received a copy of the letter sent from 
the DUR Commission to DHHS following their meeting on November 7th, which had 
recommended changes to the prior authorization criteria for: Biologicals for Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease; Janus Kinase Inhibitors; Maralixibat (Livmarli); Omalizumab (Xolair); Oral 
Glucocorticoids for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy; Tralokinumab (Adbry); and Zuranolone 
(Zurzuvae). 
V. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): There were no new updates. 
VI. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Elizabeth Matney resigned as Medicaid Director effective 
November 1st, and Rebecca Curtiss is serving as Interim Director while a nationwide search is 
conducted. A cost of dispensing survey was sent out to providers in May, with responses due 
back August 14, 2024. Results are being reviewed by HHS leadership, with the intent that the 
dispensing fee increase be added into the HHS budget request for the next legislative session. 
Once finalized, the report will be published on the state’s rate setting vendor Myers & Stauffer’s 
web page and provided to the committee. 
VII. 
Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comment from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Organization / Manufacturer 
Product 
Chase Williams 
Gilead Sciences 
Livdelzi 
Jasmine Inman 
Teva 
Uzedy, Simlandi 
Shirley Quach 
Novartis 
Kesimpta 
Sajani Barot 
Idorsia Pharmaceuticals 
Tryvio 
Rafik Marouf 
Medunik Pharmaceuticals 
Pheburane, Siklos 
Colleen Stoyas 
UCB 
Zilbrysq 
Ronald DePue 
Axsome 
Auvelity 
Joe Cirrincione 
Incyte 
Opzelura 
Paul Thompson 
Alkermes 
Aristada, Lybalvi, Vivitrol 
Andrea Hawkinson 
Recordati Rare Diseases, Inc 
Carbaglu 
Ray Kong 
Neurocrine 
Ingrezza 
Cambridge Hampsher 
Indivior 
Sublocade, Opvee 
Jennifer Shear 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals 
Epidiolex 
Kalpesh Patel 
Astellas 
Veozah 
Kaj Thompson 
Johnson & Johnson 
Tremfya 
Kevin Saldanha 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America 
Radicava 
Abigail Hata 
Amgen 
Ravicti 
Christopher Gallardo 
Intra-Cellular Therapeutics 
Caplyta 
Amy Hornig 
Abbvie 
Qulipta 
Brandon Walker 
Servier 
Voranigo 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Zachary Rideman 
United Therapeutics Corporation 
Tyvaso 
Member Comments Received: None 
Written Provider Comments Received: Gvoke (2 submissions), Caplyta (5 submissions) 
Written Manufacturer Comments Received: Gvoke, Isturisa 
At 11:30, Jennifer Doudna motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Fadi Yacoub seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval, minus Tricia McComb who was not present for 
the roll call. Open session resumed at 1:22. 
VIII. PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Levalbuterol nebulization solution to Preferred 
2. Asmanex HFA to Preferred 
3. Clonazepam ODT to Preferred 
4. Lamotrigine ER Tablets to Preferred 
5. Levetiracetam ER Tablets to Preferred 
6. Epidiolex to Preferred with 12 month electronic lookback for 2 antiepileptic drugs 
7. Citalopram 30mg capsules to Non-Preferred 
8. Paroxetine oral suspension to Non-Preferred 
9. Venlafaxine ER Tablets to Preferred 
10. Amoxapine to Non-Preferred 
11. Rebinyn to Preferred 
12. Eloctate to Preferred 
13. Altuviiio to Preferred 
14. Adbry to Preferred with Conditions 
15. Amjevita 40mg/0.4 mL and 80mg/0.8mL to Preferred with Conditions 
16. Yusimry to Preferred with Conditions 
17. Adalimumab-fkjp to Preferred with Conditions 
18. Tremfya to Preferred with Conditions 
19. Skyrizi Subcutaneous (Prefilled Syringe, Auto-Injector, Solution Cartridge) to Preferred 
with Conditions 
20. Rinvoq to Preferred with Conditions 
21. Adalimumab-aacf to Preferred with Conditions 
22. Adalimumab-adbm to Preferred with Conditions 
23. Uzedy to Preferred Step 2 
24. Rykindo to Preferred Step 2 
25. Tolterodine Tablets to Preferred 
26. Myrbetriq Tablets to Preferred 
27. Tolterodine ER Capsules to Preferred 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
28. Opzelura to Preferred with Conditions 
29. Hemangeol to Preferred with PA for diagnosis confirmation 
30. Felodipine to Preferred 
31. Verapamil ER Capsules to Preferred 
32. Carnitor tablets to Non-Preferred 
33. Levocarnitine tablets to Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations #1-33 above, and Dawn Schissel 
seconded. The decision was unanimous. 
34. Ubrelvy to Preferred with Conditions 
35. Colestipol Oral Granules & Packet to Non-Preferred 
36. Prevalite to Preferred 
37. Zafemy to Preferred 
38. Novolin N FlexPen to Preferred 
39. Novolin R FlexPen to Preferred 
40. Invokana to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
41. Invokamet to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
42. Dermotic to Non-Preferred 
43. Fluocinolone Acetonide Otic to Preferred 
44. Veozah to Preferred 
45. Mircera to Preferred with Conditions 
46. Retacrit to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
47. Bijuva to Preferred 
48. Duavee to Preferred 
49. Suflave to Preferred 
50. Gavilyte-C to Preferred 
51. Pertzye to Preferred 
52. Emflaza to Preferred with Conditions 
53. Fylnetra to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
54. Fulphila to Preferred with Conditions 
55. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate oral powder to Non-Preferred due to risk of adverse events 
56. Frovatriptan to Preferred with Conditions 
57. Eletriptan to Preferred with Conditions 
58. Kesimpta to Preferred 
59. Copaxone 20mg/mL to Non-Preferred 
60. Zimhi to Preferred 
61. Xiidra to Preferred 
62. Procentra to Preferred with Conditions 
63. Focalin XR to Preferred with Conditions 
64. Armour Thyroid to Preferred 
65. Niva Thyroid to Preferred 
66. NP Thyroid to Preferred 
67. Carbaglu to Preferred with PA 
68. Xaciato Gel to Preferred 
69. Vandazole to Preferred 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations #34-69 above, and Dawn Schissel 
seconded. The decision was unanimous. 
The committee would also like to change Katerzia to Preferred on the PDL. Jason Kruse made 
the motion for this additional change, and Fadi Yacoub seconded. All members were in favor. 
IX. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Capp and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 4) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Capp reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Erin Halverson read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Iqirvo- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Lazcluze- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
3. Livdelzi- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
4. Ohtuvayre- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
5. Tryvio- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
6. Voranigo- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
7. Xolremdi- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
Dawn Schissel motioned to accept the recommendations above, with the addition that Tryvio be 
referred to the DUR Commission to develop prior authorization criteria that better defines use for 
resistant hypertension. Fadi Yacoub seconded, and the decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly 
Released 
Generic 
Drugs 
and 
New 
Drug 
Dosage 
Forms/Strengths/ 
Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Dasatinib 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Ivabradine 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
L-glutamine 
Non-Preferred 
Liraglutide 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Lofexidine 
Non-Preferred 
Oxcarbazepine ER 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Adalimumab-aaty 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Crexont 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Entresto Sprinkle Caps 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Onyda XR 
Non-Preferred 
--- Page 6 ---
6 
Simlandi 
Preferred with Conditions 
Sitagliptin / Metformin 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Tyenne Subcutaneous Solution (Auto-
Injector & Prefilled Syringe) 
Preferred with Conditions 
Vigafyde 
Non-Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations in both tables above. Dawn Schissel 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
A motion was made by Fadi Yacoub to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Dawn Schissel, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 1:42 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for April 17, 
2025.