STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicaid/ia/open-minutes-112025.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: November 20, 2025
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: November 20, 2025 
Chairperson: Jason Kruse 
Time: 9:32 a.m. to 12:45 p.m. 
Location: Lucas State Office Building, Assembly Room LG20-B, 321 E 12th Street, Des Moines, IA 
Committee Members Present: Jason Kruse, D.O.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; 
Tricia McComb, R.N. (virtual via Teams); Jennifer Doudna, Pharm.D., R.Ph. (virtual via Teams); Dawn 
Schissel, M.D.; and Fadi Yacoub, M.D. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician Assistant) 
Committee Members Absent: Charles Wadle, D.O. 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; Michael Line, M.D., Chief 
Medical Officer; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy Administrative Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Roberta Capp, M.D., MHS; Paige Clayton, Pharm.D.; Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; 
Pam Smith, R.Ph. (virtual via Teams); and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Emily Rogers, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Jason Kruse called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Jason Kruse asked that each committee member introduce themselves to the public. Fadi Yacoub 
made the motion to approve the August minutes, and Dawn Schissel seconded. The motion passed 
with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of interest disclosures. Forms were 
provided to the committee members so they could complete their annual disclosures. 
II. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Gina Kuebler): Providers have received four notices since the last 
committee meeting, including notice of manufacturer terminations from the Medicaid Drug 
Rebate Program and their associated labeler codes. As a result of one of these terminations, 
effective 10/1/25 the following products became preferred on the Iowa Medicaid Preferred Drug 
List (PDL): fluorouracil topical cream, mesalamine er capsules, tretinoin topical cream, and 
tretinoin topical gel. Additionally, effective 10/3/25 sacubitril/valsartan became preferred, with 
Entresto to remain Co-Preferred. Another notice detailed coverage of opioid reversal agents, and 
the medications available through the Iowa Medicaid Preferred Drug List with no requirement for 
prior authorization (PA). 
III. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): On November 6th the federal government gave a little bit of 
guidance for the pending Most Favored Nation Policy. TrumpRx really has nothing to do with 
Medicaid, though the notification letter says at the end that Medicaid will also benefit. CMS 
issued an official comment on the Most Favored Nation policy, called the Generous Model, which 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
is for Medicaid specifically. There has been a request for voluntary applications, both for the 
states and the manufacturers. What has been provided officially in writing is a 24-page request 
for application for pharma to participate, which lets you know exactly what the government is 
asking of these manufactures, and it has been amended once already. The administration would 
like manufacturers to come to the plate, with their entire drug portfolio included, and offer the 
second lowest international unit price within the countries that are in the Geneva 7 plus Denmark 
and Switzerland, i.e. countries seemingly like us in economic stature. The second lowest price 
calculation takes into account the currency exchange rate and the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 
Manufacturers do also have the opportunity to cherry-pick potential offers if they decide not to 
include entire portfolios. The administration would also like these pricing changes to be effective 
January 1, 2026, which can’t reasonably happen in six weeks, though they’ve also added a caveat 
for retroactivity. The SSDC pool can still be utilized, as well. It is concerning that CMS in their 
negotiations for pricing is asking manufacturers to conform to their suggested clinical criteria, 
which could present additional unforeseen issues with the process. 
IV. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided a copy of the October 
2025 Iowa Medicaid Pharmacy Program Changes notice detailing PDL, prior authorization, and 
ProDUR edit changes effective October 1, 2025, posted on the www.iowamedicaidpdl.com site 
on the Informational Letters page. Informational Letter 2710 notifying providers of the Pharmacy 
90-day supply requirement, now mandatory effective December 1, 2025, was posted to the HHS 
Informational Letters page on November 14th, and the list of associated medications can be found 
on the PDL site above on the Preferred Drug Lists page. The committee also received copies of 
the letter sent from the DUR Commission to DHHS following their meeting on November 7th, 
which had recommended changes to the prior authorization criteria for: Brensocatib (Brinsupri); 
Diazoxide Choline (Vykat XR); Incretin Mimetics for Non-Diabetes Indications; Janus Kinase 
(JAK) Inhibitors; Pegcetacoplan (Empaveli); Sepiapterin (Sephience); and Select Topical Agents. 
Additionally, the Commission discussed removal of PA criteria for Hepatitis C Treatments, Direct 
Acting Antivirals (DAAs), along with the implementation of ProDUR edits for preferred DAAs. 
These edits include quantity limits, treatment duration, and a lookback to identify treatment 
experienced patients. All of the DUR recommendations were approved by DHHS and will go 
into effect January 1, 2026. 
V. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): There were no updates. 
VI. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Michael Line, M.D., the new Iowa Medicaid Chief Medical 
Officer, introduced himself and provided background information on his career focused on 
pediatrics, including years as a hospitalist at Blank Children’s Hospital and Chief Medical Officer 
in Jefferson, IA, and his move to healthcare administration around 2015, with the goal of helping 
patients with access to care. There is also a new HHS Director, Larry Johnson, who was 
previously the Director of the Iowa Department of Inspections, Appeals, and Licensing (DIAL) 
for more than six years, and has been in state government for more than 15 years. 
VII. 
Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comments from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Name 
Organization / Manufacturer 
Product 
Carla McSpadden 
Galderma 
Nemluvio 
Lynda Finch 
Biogen 
Zurzuvae 
Olawemimo Odebiyi 
Teva Pharmaceuticals 
Ajovy, Austedo XR, Uzedy 
Asma Sikder 
Axsome Therapeutics 
Symbravo Auvelity 
Brent Milovac 
Leo Pharma 
Anzupgo 
Reanna Yenger 
Johnson & Johnson Innovative Medicine Caplyta 
Mae Kwong 
Soleno Therapeutics 
Vykat XR 
Michael Pazirandeh 
Gilead 
Yeztugo 
Dorothea Lantz 
PWSA USA 
Vykat XR 
Chantal Rozmus 
Abbe Community Mental Health 
Caplyta 
Brock Bizzell 
United Therapeutics 
Tyvaso 
Christine Dube 
Astrazeneca 
Breztri 
Ryan Miller 
PTC Therapeutics 
Sephience 
Shawn Hansen 
Novo Nordisk 
Rybelsus 
Member Comments Received: None 
Written Provider Comments Received: Caplyta 
Written Manufacturer Comments Received: Zoryve, Wakix, Airsupra, Fasenra, Lokelma, Endari 
At 10:47, Rachel Kinn motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Fadi Yacoub seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 12:08. 
VIII. PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Gina Kuebler): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Airsupra to Preferred 
2. Breo Ellipta to Preferred 
3. Trelegy Ellipta to Preferred 
4. Dabigatran capsules to Preferred 
5. Pradaxa capsules to Non-Preferred 
6. Emend to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
7. Diclegis to Non-Preferred 
8. Doxylamine/pyridoxine to Preferred 
9. Trimethobenzamide to Non-Preferred 
10. Nucala prefilled syringe to Preferred with Conditions 
11. Amjevita 40mg/0.4mL and 80mg/0.8mL to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
12. Vtama to Preferred with Conditions 
13. Rykindo to Non-Preferred Step 3 
14. Caplyta to Preferred Step 2 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
15. Entresto tablets to Non-Preferred 
16. Janumet XR to Non-Preferred with Conditions 
17. Jentadueto XR to Preferred 
18. Rybelsus to Preferred with Conditions 
19. Exenatide to Preferred with Conditions 
20. Wegovy to Preferred with Conditions 
21. Pirfenidone to Preferred with Conditions 
22. Nevanac to Non-Preferred 
23. Ticagrelor to Preferred 
24. Brilinta to Non-Preferred 
25. Jornay PM to Preferred with Conditions 
26. Spinosad topical suspension to Preferred 
Dawn Schissel motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Fadi Yacoub seconded. 
The decision was unanimous. 
IX. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Capp and Gina Kuebler): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 4) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Capp reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Gina Kuebler read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Andembry – Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Anzupgo- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions (JAK 
Inhibitors) 
3. Brinsupri- Recommend status on the PDL as Preferred with Conditions 
4. Harliku- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
5. Hernexeos- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
6. Modeyso- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions (Select 
Oncology Agents) 
7. Sephience- Recommend status on the as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
8. Tryptyr- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Vykat XR- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
10. Wakix - Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions (CNS Stimulants) 
11. Yeztugo Tablets – Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended 
12. Zelsuvmi- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
13. Zunveyl- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
Fadi Yacoub motioned to accept the recommendations above. Dawn Schissel seconded, and the 
decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly 
Released 
Generic 
Drugs 
and 
New 
Drug 
Dosage 
Forms/Strengths/ 
Combinations/BioSimilars (Gina Kuebler): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Bosentan Soluble Tab 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Fidaxomicin 
Non-Preferred 
Fluticasone Furoate 
Non-Preferred 
Pilocarpine 1.25% Ophth Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Sacubitril-Valsartan 
Preferred 
Topiramate Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Brynovin Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Hydrocodone/Apap Oral Solution 10-300 MG Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Imuldosa 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Kirsty Vial & Pen 
Non-Preferred 
Merilog 
Non-Preferred 
Merilog SoloStar 
Non-Preferred 
Pruradik Lotion 
Non-Preferred 
Dawn Schissel motioned to accept the recommendations in both tables above. Fadi Yacoub 
seconded, and all members were in favor. 
XI. 
High Cost Drugs Review Staff Presentation: Dr. Capp presented a PowerPoint outlining the 
national Medicaid overview of high-cost utilization products, which evaluated top drugs by total 
amount reimbursed across the U.S., as well as top drugs by total amount reimbursed by therapeutic 
class. In 2024, the top 5 classes nationally were: Incretin Mimetic Agents, Antiretrovirals, Anti-
Psoriatics, Anti-TNF alpha Monoclonal Antibodies, and Sympathomimetics. Ozempic, Biktarvy, 
Dupixent, Invega, and Humira topped the total amount reimbursed by drug chart. 
XII. 
Preview of the next meeting: Jason Kruse requested a review of the recently released atopic 
dermatitis guideline update and how it fits into the PDL. 
A motion was made by Dawn Schissel to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Lacey Ferguson, and all 
in attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 12:45 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for April 
16, 2026.