STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/April%2020%2C%202023%20Open%20Minutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: April 20, 2023
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: April 20, 2023 
Chairperson: Mark Graber, M.D. 
Erin Halverson, Iowa Medicaid staff, assisted in running the meeting with the Chairperson due to the 
virtual format. 
Time: 9:33 a.m. to 11:31 a.m. 
Location: WebEx Teleconference (due to Federal PHE Declaration for the COVID-19 Pandemic) 
Due to the current federal state of emergency, continually fluctuating numbers of coronavirus cases in 
various counties, the need for stability and pre-planning for the public, and due to increased workload of 
our members directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Committee finds that it is 
impossible/impractical to meet in person for the April 20, 2023 meeting, and that it must be held 
electronically. 
Committee Members Present: Mark Graber, M.D.; Charles Wadle, D.O.; Abby Cate, Pharm.D.; Jason 
Kessler, M.D.; Tricia White, R.N.; and Rachel Reinsvold, Pharm.D. (Vacancies July 2021: 1 Physician, 1 
Physician Assistant) 
Iowa DHS Staff Present: Susan Parker, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; and Krissa Mason, Assistant 
Attorney General. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Laureen Biczak, D.O.; Ryan Fell, Pharm.D.; Erin Halverson, R.Ph.; Gina 
Kuebler, R.Ph.; Pam Smith, R.Ph.; and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jeannine Murray, Amerigroup Iowa; Emily Rogers, 
Iowa Total Care; and Candace Jordan Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Chairperson Mark Graber called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Mark Graber asked that each committee and DHS and IME staff member introduce themselves to 
the public. Abby Cate made the motion to approve the November minutes, and Rachel Reinsvold 
seconded. The motion passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict of interest 
disclosures. 
II. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): The fax blasts sent to providers since the last P&T 
Meeting in August, to notify them of preferred drug list changes, were reviewed. Due to 
availability issues for oseltamivir and albuterol products, Tamiflu capsules and oral suspension 
and ProAir RespiClick will be made preferred on the PDL. 
III. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Fell): With regards to recent insulin price reductions from the major 
manufacturers, there is a provision in the American Rescue Plan Act that removes what is 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
currently a 100% average manufacturer price cap on these products for the federal rebates. As of 
today, if an inflationary component or best price provision of a federal rebate were to exceed 
100% of the manufacturer’s average manufacturing price, that is where it would currently be 
capped. However, within the American Rescue Plan Act beginning January 1, 2024, that would 
be removed, and the manufacturer would potentially have to pay a state for utilization of a product 
exceeding that price at which they are producing it. The insulin manufacturers are a major 
offender of this inflated pricing, and one of the reasons for the recent price reductions. 
Additionally, within the Inflation Reduction Act, there are Medicare specific inflation penalties, 
essentially modeled after the Medicaid drug rebate program, which are also being enacted and 
will affect these products, as well. It’s also likely there will be a future expansion of the Inflation 
Reduction Act that would apply to commercial plans not currently affected, capping insulin 
products at $35. 
IV. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Parker): Susan Parker reviewed the informational letters that had 
been sent out since the last P&T Meeting in August, all posted online at 
http://iowamedicaidpdl.com/informational_letters and http://iowamedicaidpos.com/latest_news. 
Providers received Informational Letters 2405-MC-FFS and 2428-MC-FFS related to PDL and 
prior authorization criteria changes that went into effect January 1, 2023, and April 1, 2023, 
respectively, following the November P&T and DUR Meetings and the February DUR Meeting. 
Informational Letter 2426-MC-FFS-CVD notified providers about the end of COVID-19 Public 
Health Emergency (PHE) pharmacy allowances, effective May 12, 2023. The committee also 
received copies of the letter sent to the Department of Health and Human Services from the DUR 
Commission after their February meeting, which included recommendations for quantity limits 
and ProDUR age limits for select drugs, removal of prior authorization criteria for Nebivolol 
(Bystolic) and Potassium Binders, and new and updated prior authorization criteria 
recommendations for: Select Topical Psoriasis Agents, Initial Days’ Supply Limit Override for 
Benzodiazepines, and High Dose Opioids 
V. 
Legislation (Dr. Parker): There were no updates. 
VI. 
IME Updates (Dr. Parker): There was nothing new to report. 
VII. 
Public Comment: As this meeting was purely virtual, only written public comment was accepted. 
The committee members reviewed the received comments, which are posted at: 
http://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/public-comments. They were also forwarded manufacturer 
comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Provider Comments Received: 
Imcivree 
Manufacturer Comments Received: 
Ztalmy, Xelstrym, Pheburane, Briviact, Nayzilam, Vraylar, Hyftor, Sunlenca, Auvelity, Imcivree, 
Sotyktu 
Dr. Kessler inquired about coverage of Imcivree. It was noted that it currently isn’t covered as 
Iowa’s current state plan reflects Iowa Medicaid does not cover drugs for weight loss. A change 
to this policy would require a state plan amendment and approved funding. It could, however, be 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
considered under exception to policy (ETP). He requested information regarding how many ETPs 
have been submitted with outcome. 
At 9:46, Abby Cate motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential. Jason Kessler seconded, and the 
motion passed with unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 10:23. 
VIII. PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 2) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Vilazodone to Preferred. 
2. Trimipramine to Non-Preferred (grandfather existing users). 
3. Methoxsalen Capsules to Non-Preferred. 
4. Insulin glargine Pen and Vial to Preferred, labeler 00955 only. Lantus remains Preferred. 
5. Ziextenzo to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
Chuck Wadle motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Abby Cate seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
The drugs listed below were recommended to be removed from coverage under the pharmacy 
benefit, as they are intended to be administered in a healthcare/office setting (coverage and 
billing is available through the medical benefit): 
1. Fabrazyme Injection 
2. Carnitor Injection 
3. Chlorothiazide Sodium Injection 
4. Calcitriol Injection 
5. Naglazyme Injection 
6. Aldurazyme Injection 
7. Regonol Injection 
8. Nitroglycerin in D5W Injection 
9. Caldolor Injection 
10. Levothyroxine Sodium for IV Injection 
11. Triostat (liothyronine) IV solution 
Abby Cate motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Chuck Wadle seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
IX. 
RDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): The drugs listed below were recommended 
to be removed from coverage under the pharmacy benefit, as they are intended to be administered 
in a healthcare/office setting (coverage and billing is available through the medical benefit): 
1. Cyclophosphamide IV Solution 
2. Melphalan Injection 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Abby Cate motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Jason Kessler seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
X. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Biczak): All following recommendations (with numbering as 
provided on agenda attachment 4) were made to maximize cost savings to the program unless 
otherwise noted. Complete new drug monographs can be found on the November meeting page 
at http://iowamedicaidpdl.com/schedule_page/april-20-2023. Dr. Biczak reviewed the new 
drugs, and the recommendations were as follows: 
1. Auvelity- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
2. Hyftor Gel- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
3. Lytgobi- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
4. Rezlidhia- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
5. Rolvedon- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
6. Sotyktu- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
7. Sunlenca tablets- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended 
8. Verkazia- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
9. Vivjoa- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
10. Ztalmy- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
Abby Cate motioned to accept the recommendations above as amended, and Rachel Reinsvold 
seconded. The decision was unanimous. 
XI. 
Newly Released Generic Drugs (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Clonidine ER Tab 
Non-Preferred 
Diclofenac Oral Packet 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Estradiol Gel 
Non-Preferred 
Fingolimod 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Insulin Degludec Pen Injector 
Non-Preferred 
Insulin Degludec Vial 
Non-Preferred 
Lurasidone 
Preferred Step 1 
Methylphenidate Osmotic Release Tabs 
45mg & 63mg 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
PEG 3350-Kcl-NaCl-Na 
Sulf-Na Ascorbate-C for Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Penciclovir Cream 
Non-Preferred 
Roflumilast 
Preferred with Conditions 
Sodium Oxybate Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Tafluprost 
Non-Preferred 
Tasimelteon 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
Chuck Wadle motioned to accept the recommendations above. Abby Cate seconded, and all 
members were in favor. 
XII. 
New Drug Dosage Forms/Strengths/Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following 
recommendations were made to maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Adapalene / Benzoyl Peroxide Pad 0.1-2.5% 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Entadfi 
Non-Preferred 
Ermeza Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred 
Fylnetra 
Preferred with Conditions 
Humalog Tempo 
Non-Preferred 
Lyumjev Tempo 
Non-Preferred 
Pheburane Oral Pellet 
Non-Preferred 
Relexxii 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Ryaltris 
Non-Preferred 
Stimufend 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Tadliq Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Xaciato 2% Vaginal Gel 
Non-Preferred 
Xelstrym 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Jason Kessler motioned to accept the recommendations above. Rachel Reinsvold seconded, and 
all members were in favor. 
XIII. Biosimilar Drugs Presentation (Dr. Biczak and Dr. Fell): A PowerPoint outlining approval 
pathways, indications and “skinny labels”, implications of “method of use” codes, and market 
trends and uptake was presented. 
A motion was made by Abby Cate to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Rachel Reinsvold, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 11:31 a.m. The next scheduled meeting is tentatively set for 
August 17, 2023.