STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://hhs.iowa.gov/nondiscrimination-policy
SEED_URL: https://hhs.iowa.gov/medicaid/provider-services/medicaid-pharmacy
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Nondiscrimination Policy
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=UTF-8
TITLE: Nondiscrimination Policy | Health & Human Services

Nondiscrimination Policy | Health & Human Services 
Skip to main content
Official State of Iowa Website 
Agencies A-Z 
Programs & Services 
Health & Human Services 
Search 
Menu 
Main navigation 
Assistance Programs 
Assistance Programs sub-navigation 
Apply for Services 
Cash Assistance 
Child Care Assistance 
Family Planning Program 
Food Assistance 
Housing & Rent Assistance 
Job Training 
Medicaid & Health Coverage 
Refugee Services 
State Supplementary Assistance 
Women, Infants, & Children (WIC) 
All Assistance Programs 
Medicaid 
Medicaid sub-navigation 
Apply for Medicaid 
Member Services 
Plans & Programs 
Services & Care 
Provider Services 
All Medicaid Programs & Services 
About Medicaid 
About Medicare 
Health & Prevention 
Health & Prevention sub-navigation 
Report a Disease or Outbreak 
Addiction & Substance Use Disorders 
Animal Safety and Disease Prevention 
Birth & Maternal Care 
Brain & Memory Health 
Cancer 
Child & Adolescent Health 
Consumable Hemp 
Dental & Oral Health 
Diabetes Prevention & Management 
Disease Information 
Disability Services 
Environmental Health 
Family Health 
Family Planning & Reproductive Health 
Food, Diet & Exercise 
Heart Health 
Healthcare-associated Infections 
HIV, STI and Hepatitis 
Violence Prevention 
Medical Cannabis 
Behavioral Health 
Refugee Health 
Tobacco Use Prevention & Control 
Vaccines & Immunizations 
Providers & Professionals 
All Health & Prevention 
Family & Community 
Family & Community sub-navigation 
Abuse Registry 
Community Integration 
Flourish Magazine 
Record Check Evaluations 
Thrive Iowa 
Aging & Disability Resource Center 
Aging Services 
Adult Protective Services 
Child Care 
Child Protective Services 
Child Support 
Court-Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) 
Disaster Recovery 
Early Intervention & Support 
Family Development & Self-Sufficiency (FaDSS) 
Fatherhood Support 
Foster Care & Adoption 
Marriage, Birth, or Death Certificates 
Specialty Care Facilities 
All Family & Community Services 
Report Abuse & Fraud 
Report Abuse & Fraud sub-navigation 
Mandatory Reporter Information 
Student Abuse Investigations 
About 
About sub-navigation 
Administrative Rules 
Mission & Vision 
Strategic Plan 
Advisory Groups 
Appeal a Decision 
Careers 
Data & Reports 
Funding Opportunities 
Initiatives 
Leadership 
Newsroom 
Open Records 
PHAB Accreditation 
Policy Manuals 
Public Meetings 
Agencies A-Z 
Online Services 
Nondiscrimination Policy 
Find more information on the USDA Discrimination policy here . 
Read the  Iowa Medicaid Nondiscrimination Rights (179.14 KB) .pdf  for more information on Medicaid discrimination policy. 
It is the policy of the Iowa Department of Health and Human Services to provide equal treatment in employment and provision of services to applicants, employees and clients without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, disability or veteran status; hereafter referred to as protected category. 
In accordance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and the principles of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity, the Iowa Department of Health and Human Services shall provide equal opportunity for all in recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, transfer, compensation, and all other terms and conditions of employment without regard to protected category status. 
The Iowa Department of Health Human Services assures that no person will be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination for any services because of protected category status. 
No facility operated by Iowa Department of Health and Human Services may be used to promote any discriminatory practice nor shall the Department become a party to any agreement that permits any discriminatory practice. 
The Iowa Department of Health and Human Services shall not grant, deny or revoke a license, registration or certification on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, religion, age, disability or veteran status. 
Who may file a complaint or concern? 
Any employee of the Iowa Department of Health and Human Services who has reason to believe that he or she has been discriminated against may contact the agency Office of Human Resources, or the Iowa Department of Administrative Services-Human Resources Enterprise. 
Any applicant or client of the Iowa Department of Health and Human Services who has reason to believe that he or she may have been discriminated against may contact the Office of Human Resources. 
How to file a complaint or concern 
Complaints should be filed promptly but, in most instances, no later than 300 days from the date of the alleged discriminatory act(s). 
Complaints to the Iowa Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Human Resources may consist of a letter to the address below describing your concern or complaint, how you were discriminated against and on what protected category. 
Where to file a complaint or concern: 
Iowa Health and Human Services, Human Resources  
Lucas Building, 4th Floor  
321 East 12th Street 
Des Moines, IA 50319 
Email: hr@hhs.iowa.gov 
Complaints may also be filed with local Human Rights Agencies, the Iowa Civil Rights Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Secondary Navigation Menu
Legal 
Accessibility 
HIPAA 
Nondiscrimination Policy 
Privacy 
Health & Human Services
Footer Social Media Menu 
Opens in a new window. 
Opens in a new window. 
Opens in a new window. 
Opens in a new window. 
Opens in a new window. 
Department of Health and Human Services 
Lucas Building 
321 East 12th Street 
Des Moines , IA 50319 
Phone 
(800) 972-2017 
How can we help? 
Share feedback with us 
Footer Menu 
Footer 
About Iowa HHS 
About HHS 
Public Meetings & Events 
Careers 
Volunteer Opportunities 
Newsroom 
Data Breach Notifications 
Resources 
Data & Reports 
Request Vital Records 
Your Life Iowa 
Office of the State Medical Examiner 
Accessibility Assistance 
Contact & Locations 
Contact Us 
Report a Disease or Outbreak 
Area Agencies on Aging 
HHS Office Locations 
Legal 
Accessibility 
HIPAA 
Nondiscrimination Policy 
Privacy 
Archived Documents 
Contact Menu 
Send Feedback 
© 2026 State of Iowa - Read our accessibility, data, and privacy policies .