STATE: Iowa
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/content/dam/ffs-medicare/ia/open-minutes-04-18-24.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.iowamedicaidpdl.com/pt-committee-public-comments/pt-committee-info.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: April 18, 2024
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Iowa Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee 
Minutes 
Date: April 18, 2024 
Chairperson: not yet elected 
Erin Halverson, Iowa Medicaid staff, assisted in running the meeting as the last chairperson was not re-
appointed to the committee for this term. Elections took place at this meeting as shown below. 
Time: 9:30 a.m. to 12:02 p.m. 
Location: Grimes State Office Building Room B100, 400 E 14th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319 
Committee Members Present: Charles Wadle, D.O.; Jason Kessler, M.D.; Lacey Ferguson, Pharm.D.; 
Rachel Kinn, Pharm.D.; Tricia White, R.N.; and Jason Kruse, D.O. (Vacancies July 2023: 1 Physician, 1 
Physician Assistant) 
Iowa DHHS Staff Present: Abby Cate, Pharm.D., Pharmacy Consultant; Jenny Erdman, LMHC, Bureau 
Chief for Medicaid Quality Innovation and Medical Policy; and Darian Forcier, Pharmacy Administrative 
Support. 
Iowa Medicaid Staff Present: Jacquelyn Hedlund, M.D., MS; Paige Clayton, Pharm.D.; Erin Halverson, 
R.Ph.; Gina Kuebler, R.Ph.; and Melissa Biddle. 
Managed Care Organization (MCO) Staff Present: Jordan Thoman, Wellpoint Iowa; Carroll Nelson, Iowa 
Total Care; and Candace Jordan, Molina Healthcare of Iowa. 
Erin Halverson called the meeting to order. 
I. 
Erin Halverson asked that each committee and DHHS/Medicaid staff member introduce 
themselves to the public. Jason Kruse made the motion to approve the November minutes, and 
Rachel Kinn seconded. The motion passed with no objections. There were no new verbal conflict 
of interest disclosures. 
II. 
Annual P&T Committee Chairperson and Vice Chairperson Elections: Rachel Kinn nominated 
Jason Kruse for Chairperson. Chuck Wadle seconded, and all members were in favor. Jason 
Kruse then nominated Chuck Wadle as Vice Chairperson. He accepted, and this decision was 
also unanimous. 
III. 
PDL Revision Notifications (Erin Halverson): The fax blasts sent to providers since the last P&T 
Meeting in November, to notify them of preferred drug list changes, were reviewed. Due to the 
continued transition of naloxone hydrochloride nasal liquid to over-the-counter status, OTC 
naloxone hydrochloride 4 mg/0.1 mL nasal liquid will become preferred on the PDL. Sirolimus 
oral solution will also be preferred, due to the discontinuation of Rapamune oral solution. 
IV. 
Drug Rebate Issues (Dr. Clayton): Change Healthcare is monitoring the effect of the AMP cap 
removal effective in January 2024, as PDL changes could arise due to manufacturers’ responses 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
to that change. There has already been a lot of price fluctuation across the board on brand name 
drugs as anticipated, as well as the “penny” older generic drugs. The CMS pricing file is set to 
be released in three weeks. 
V. 
PA Criteria/Pro-DUR Edits (Dr. Cate): Committee members were provided copies of the 
informational letters sent to providers since the last meeting, most of which pertained to the 
Change Healthcare cyber attack and resulting system outages, explained in further detail below 
in the Medicaid updates section. 
VI. 
Legislation (Dr. Cate): Legislative bills that would affect Iowa Medicaid and the pharmacy benefit 
include one for the modernization of the Pharmacy Practice Act, regulation of pharmacy benefit 
managers, 340b drug prices, pharmacist use of epinephrine, pharmacist prescribing of hormonal 
contraceptives, and pharmacist or practitioner judgement. Two bills are still being considered. 
House File 555, which updates Iowa’s Pharmacy Practice Act to reflect current training and 
education for Iowa’s pharmacists, has passed and is awaiting the governor’s signature. House 
File 2401, related to the pharmacy benefit manager reform, has not passed yet, but is still eligible 
for a possible vote in the Senate. 
VII. 
Iowa Medicaid Updates (Dr. Cate): Managed care organization Amerigroup has now changed 
their name to Wellpoint Iowa as of January 1, 2024. A cost of dispensing survey will go out to 
providers in May, with responses due back in August. Iowa Medicaid received approval to move 
forward with a rule change to allow a 90-day supply per prescription, rather than the 31 days 
currently allowed. A 90-day allowance was implemented during the Public Health Emergency 
(PHE), and had a positive impact on the pharmacy program, as well as the members. The DUR 
Commission reviewed and recommended a re-implementation of the 90-day supply limit for 
certain reviewed drugs, mostly generic maintenance medications, not all PDL medications like 
during the PHE. The Change Healthcare cyber attack did affect the pharmacy fee-for-service 
program. The Point-of-Sale systems, including eligibility look-up, prior authorization, and billing 
applications, were unavailable from February 21, 2024 to March 28, 2024. The prior 
authorization mandates and refill too soon edits were removed during that time span, but are now 
back in place for dispensing dates after March 28, 2024. 
VIII. Public Comment: In addition to the written public comments provided to committee members, 
they heard oral public comment from the speakers shown below. They were also forwarded 
manufacturer comments as they were received via email prior to the meeting. 
Name 
Representing 
Drug/Topic 
Sanjay Lalbahadur 
Indivior 
Opvee 
Tami Sova 
Biogen 
Skyclarys and Zurzuvae 
Lori Showalter 
UCB 
Bimzelx 
Cari Chestnut 
Novartis 
Fabhalta 
Amy Hornig 
Abbvie 
Rinvoq 
Member Comments Received: Skyclarys 
Provider Comments Received: Skyclarys, Bimzelx 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
Manufacturer Comments Received: Xdemvy, Entyvio, Zilbrysq, Skyclarys, Agamree 
At 10:05, Chuck Wadle motioned to go to closed session as authorized by Iowa Code Section 
21.5(1)(a) of the Open Meetings Law to review or discuss economic records associated with the 
PDL which are required or authorized to be kept confidential, and the motion passed with 
unanimous roll call approval. Open session resumed at 11:05. 
IX. 
PDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 2) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Dupixent to Preferred with Conditions. 
2. Emgality to Preferred with Conditions. 
3. Lubiprostone to Preferred with Conditions (due to discontinuation of Amitiza). 
4. Prednisolone tablets to Non-Preferred. 
5. Skytrofa to Preferred with Conditions after step through one preferred short acting growth 
hormone product. 
6. Opvee to Preferred. 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Rachel Kinn seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
The drugs listed below are recommended to be removed from coverage under the pharmacy 
benefit, as they are intended to be administered in a healthcare/office setting (coverage and 
billing is available through the medical benefit): 
1. Eligard 
2. Lupron Depot 
3. Lupron Depot-PED 
4. Trelstar 
Jason Kessler motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Lacey Ferguson seconded. 
The decision was unanimous. 
X. 
RDL Discussion and Deliberation (Erin Halverson): All subsequent recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 3) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
program unless otherwise noted. 
1. Afinitor tablets to Non-Preferred with Conditions. 
2. Everolimus tablets to Preferred with Conditions. 
Rachel Kinn motioned to accept the recommendation above, and Tricia White seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
XI. 
Newly Released Drugs (Dr. Hedlund and Erin Halverson): All following recommendations (with 
numbering as provided on agenda attachment 4) were made to maximize cost savings to the 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
program unless otherwise noted. Dr. Hedlund reviewed the clinical information for the new drugs, 
and then Erin Halverson read through the recommendations as follows: 
1. Agamree- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
2. Akeega- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
3. Augtyro- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
4. Bimzelx- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
5. Fabhalta- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
6. Fruzaqla- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
7. Iwilfin- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
8. Ojjaara- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
9. Omvoh Auto-Injector- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
10. Skyclarys- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
11. Sohonos- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
12. Truqap- Recommend status on the RDL as Non-Recommended with Conditions 
13. Velsipity- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred with Conditions 
14. Wainua- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
15. Xdemvy- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
16. Xphozah- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
17. Zilbrysq- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
18. Zurzuvae- Recommend status on the PDL as Non-Preferred 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above, and Jason Kessler seconded. The 
decision was unanimous. 
XII. 
Newly Released Generic Drugs (Erin Halverson): All following recommendations were made to 
maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Adalimumab aacf 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Adalimumab adbm 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Amphetamine- Dextroamphetamine 
3- Bead Cap ER 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Cyanocobalamin Spray 
Non-Preferred 
Dapagliflozin 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Dapagliflozin and Metformin 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Tabs 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
(5mg & 10mg remain Preferred) 
Fluticasone Propionate BA 
Non-Preferred 
Insulin Glargine 300 units/mL 
Non-Preferred 
Insulin Glargine Yfgn 
Non-Preferred 
Pazopanib 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Pitavastatin 
Non-Preferred 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
Risperidone Injection 
Non-Preferred Step 3 
Spironolactone Oral Suspension 
Non-Preferred 
Chuck Wadle motioned to accept the recommendations above. Rachel Kinn seconded, and all 
members were in favor. 
XIII. New Drug Dosage Forms/Strengths/Combinations/BioSimilars (Erin Halverson): All following 
recommendations were made to maximize cost savings to the program unless otherwise noted. 
Drug Name 
PDL/RDL Recommendation 
Abrilada 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Cabtreo 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Cuvrior 
Non-Preferred 
Entyvio Subcutaneous Pen Injector 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Furoscix 
Non-Preferred 
Jylamvo 
Non-Preferred 
Likmez 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Motpoly XR 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Nitrofurantoin Oral Suspension 50mg/5mL 
Non-Preferred 
Olpruva 
Non-Preferred 
Rykindo 
Non-Preferred Step 3 
Suflave 
Non-Preferred 
Tramadol 25mg Tab 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Valsartan Oral Solution 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Vevye 
Non-Preferred 
Zituvio 
Non-Preferred with Conditions 
Jason Kruse motioned to accept the recommendations above. Jason Kessler seconded, and all 
members were in favor. 
A motion was made by Jason Kessler to adjourn the meeting. It was seconded by Chuck Wadle, and all in 
attendance approved. The meeting adjourned at 12:02 p.m. The next scheduled meeting is set for August 
15, 2024.