STATE: Wisconsin
URL: https://www.forwardhealth.wi.gov/WIPortal/content/provider/pac/pdf/PAC_Guidelines.pdf.spage
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: seed from state-monitoring-matrix.md: PA Advisory Committee guidelines

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 12 
 
 
 
 
 
Wisconsin Medicaid 
Pharmacy Prior Authorization 
Advisory Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
Department Guidelines for the Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior 
Authorization Advisory Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 1.8 
Last modified: September 2024 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 12 
 
 
Table of Contents 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS .................................................................. 2 
1.1 PREFERRED DRUG LIST (PDL) OVERVIEW .............................................3 
1.2 COMMITTEE ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION ....................................6 
1.3 COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES .................................................................8 
1.4 MEETING GUIDELINES ................................................................................9 
1.5 DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND CONFIDENTIALITY 
REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................................... 11 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 12 
 
 
1.1 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) Overview 
A Brief Overview 
 
ForwardHealth makes recommendations to the Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior Authorization 
(PA) Advisory Committee on whether certain PDL drugs should be preferred or non-preferred. 
These recommendations are based primarily on objective evaluations of a drug's relative safety, 
effectiveness of the drug, clinical outcomes, and the relative cost of the drug (to Wisconsin 
Medicaid) in comparison with other therapeutically interchangeable alternative agents in the same 
drug class. 
 
New drugs are usually added to existing drug classes on the PDL as non-preferred drugs until their 
next scheduled class review by the Pharmacy PA Advisory Committee. 
 
The PDL is not a drug formulary and is not a comprehensive list of covered drugs. 
 
Most drugs and drug classes included on the PDL are covered by the BadgerCare Plus, Medicaid, 
and SeniorCare, but certain drugs may have restrictions (e.g., diagnosis, quantity limits, age limits). 
Prescribers are encouraged to write prescriptions for preferred drugs if medically appropriate. Non-
preferred drugs may be covered with an approved PA request. Most preferred drugs do not require 
PA except in designated classes identified on the Preferred Drug List Quick Reference. Noncovered 
drugs (e.g., drugs used for hair loss or cosmetic purposes) are not reimbursed, even with PA. 
 
For more information please refer to the pharmacy page of the ForwardHealth Portal at the 
following link: 
 
https://www.forwardhealth.wi.gov/WIPortal/content/provider/medicaid/pharmacy/resources.ht
m.spage 
 
Wisconsin Medicaid’s Online Handbook is also available on the Portal at the following link: 
 
https://www.forwardhealth.wi.gov/WIPortal/Subsystem/KW/Display.aspx 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 12 
 
 
Prescriber Responsibilities for Prior Authorization for Drugs 
 
Prescribers are encouraged to write prescriptions for preferred drugs. Prescribers are encouraged to 
prescribe more than one preferred drug before a non-preferred drug is prescribed. 
 
 
Clinical Criteria for Non-preferred Drugs 
 
Clinical criteria for approval of a PA request for a non-preferred drug are at least one of the 
following, unless drug class-specific clinical criteria have been established and published by 
ForwardHealth:  
 
• 
The member has experienced an unsatisfactory therapeutic response or a clinically significant 
adverse drug reaction with at least one of the preferred drugs from the same PDL drug 
class as the drug being requested.  
• 
There is a clinically significant drug interaction between another drug the member is taking 
and at least one of the preferred drugs from the same PDL drug class as the drug being 
requested.  
• 
The member has a medical condition(s) that prevents the use of at least one of the 
preferred drugs from the same PDL drug class as the drug being requested 
 
Alternate Clinical Criteria for Non-preferred Drugs in Eligible Drug Classes Only 
 
The following drug classes have alternate clinical criteria that may be considered if the member does 
not meet the clinical criteria for non-preferred drugs listed above:  
 
• 
Alzheimer's agents drug class (excluding memantine products for members who are 17 years 
of age or younger). 
• 
Anticonvulsants drug class.  
• 
Antidepressants, other drug class.  
• 
Antidepressants, SSRI drug class.  
• 
Antiparkinson's agents drug class.  
• 
Antipsychotics drug class.  
• 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension drug class. 
 
Alternate clinical criteria may be considered if a member does not meet the previously listed clinical 
criteria for non-preferred drugs. Alternative clinical criteria are one of the following:  
 
• 
The member is new to ForwardHealth (i.e., the member has been granted eligibility for 
ForwardHealth within the past month) and has taken the requested non-preferred drug 
continuously for the last 30 days or longer and had a measurable therapeutic response.  
• 
The member had an approved PA issued by ForwardHealth that recently expired for the 
non-preferred drug, and the member has taken the requested non-preferred drug 
continuously for the last 30 days or longer and had a measurable therapeutic response.  


--- Page 5 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 12 
 
 
• 
The member was recently discharged from an inpatient stay in which the member was 
stabilized on the non-preferred drug being requested. 
 
Note: Starting a member on a medication by using manufacturer-provided samples or manufacturer 
patient assistance programs will not be considered as previous medication history for PA review. 
 
Completing a Prior Authorization Form 
 
If a non-preferred drug or a preferred drug that requires clinical PA is medically necessary for a 
member, the prescriber is required to do the following: 
• 
Complete the appropriate PA form for the drug.  
• 
Send the PA form to the pharmacy where the prescription will be filled.  
• 
Include accurate and complete answers and clinical information about the member's 
medical history on the PA form.  
• 
Provide his or her handwritten signature and date on the form.  
The PA form may be faxed or mailed to the pharmacy, or the member may carry the form with 
the prescription to the pharmacy. The pharmacy provider will use the completed PA form to 
submit a PA request to ForwardHealth. Prescribers should not submit the PA form to 
ForwardHealth. 
Prescribers are required to retain a completed, signed, and dated copy of the PA form and any 
supporting documentation. Pharmacy providers may not reuse PA forms from previously 
approved PA requests for subsequent PA submissions. 
Note: If additional information needs to be addressed and can be provided by the pharmacy 
provider (e.g., medication refill history and compliance), the pharmacy provider should add the 
information to the Prior Authorization Fax Cover Sheet, which is available on the Forms page of 
the Portal, or to the Additional Information section available on most PA forms. The 
representative for the pharmacy provider should sign and date the entry to clearly identify the 
information source. 
 
Pharmacy Provider Responsibilities for Prior Authorization for Drugs 
Pharmacy providers should review the Preferred Drug List Quick Reference for the most current list 
of preferred and non-preferred drugs. 
If a member presents a prescription for a non-preferred drug, the pharmacy provider is encouraged 
to contact the prescriber to discuss preferred drug options. The prescriber may choose to change the 
prescription to a preferred drug, if medically appropriate for the member, or the prescriber may 
complete the appropriate PA form. 
 


--- Page 6 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 12 
 
 
Pharmacy providers are required to:  
• 
Submit the PA request using the PA form received from the prescriber and using the PA 
request submission option most appropriate for the drug. Pharmacy providers may submit 
PA requests using the STAT-PA system (when applicable), on the Portal, by fax, or by mail.  
• 
Retain a completed, signed, and dated copy of the PA form and any supporting 
documentation received from the prescriber.  
Pharmacy providers may not reuse PA forms from previously approved PA requests for subsequent 
PA request submissions. 
Note: If additional information needs to be addressed and can be provided by the pharmacy provider 
(e.g., medication refill history and compliance), the pharmacy provider should add the information 
to the Prior Authorization Fax Cover Sheet, which is available on the Forms page of the Portal, or 
to the Additional Information section available on most PA forms. The representative for the 
pharmacy provider should sign and date the entry to clearly identify the information source. 
 
1.2 Committee Organization and Operation 
Legal Authority 
 
The Department of Health Services Secretary, according to s. 49.45(49)(a),Wis.Stats, shall exercise 
his or her authority under s. 15.04 (1)(c) to create a prescription drug prior authorization committee 
to advise the department on issues related to prior authorization decisions made concerning 
prescription drugs on behalf of medical assistance recipients. The Secretary shall appoint as 
members at least all of the following: 
 
1. 
Two physicians, as defined in s. 448.01 (5), who are currently in practice. 
2. 
Two pharmacists, as defined in s. 450.01 (15). 
3. 
One advocate for recipients of medical assistance who has sufficient medical background, as 
determined by the department, to evaluate a prescription drug’s clinical effectiveness.  
 
 
Name of the Committee 
 
The name of the organization shall be the Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior Authorization 
Advisory Committee, serving the Wisconsin Medicaid, BadgerCare Plus, and SeniorCare programs, 
administered by the Wisconsin Department of Health Services. 
 
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 12 
 
 
Membership and Qualifications 
 
1. To ensure the ability to maintain quorum, the committee is composed of both standing 
committee members and alternate committee members.  
 
a. The standing membership shall consist of health care professionals with an unrestricted 
license to practice in the State of Wisconsin and at least one advocate who have sufficient 
medical background to evaluate a prescription drug’s clinical effectiveness.  
b. Advanced Nurse Practitioners and Physicians Assistants must possess full prescribing 
authority for all scheduled and non-scheduled medications to be eligible for committee 
membership.  
c. The majority of the standing committee members should be actively involved in the 
treatment of, or provision of healthcare services to, Wisconsin Medicaid members. 
d. A psychiatrist should be made available if possible, to serve as a Clinical Consultant to the 
Committee anytime a Mental Health drug class is reviewed.  
e. In recommending drug PDL status, the Committee should be attentive to the content of and 
changes to pertinent guidelines and policies of professional organizations and standards 
setting bodies such as the American Society of Health System Pharmacists, the American 
Hospital Association, medical and nursing associations, governmental organizations and 
others, as appropriate. 
f. Committee members shall not receive monetary compensation or any other thing of value 
from a company or other organization that has a financial interest in the outcome of matter 
being reviewed by the Committee. 
g. Committee members shall maintain confidential any member or financial information 
discussed and provided for review. Confidential information may be used only for purposes 
directly related to the administration of the PDL program. 
h. Committee members shall not participate in meetings with drug manufacturers to specifically 
discuss topics directly related to an upcoming Committee meeting.  Committee members 
may meet with drug manufacturers as it relates to their work outside of the Committee.  
Drug manufacturers are given the opportunity to provide information regarding their 
products during the public comment section of each Committee meeting.  Committee 
members may contact the Department if there are questions about specific interactions with 
drug manufacturers.   
 
Appointment and Term 
 
1. 
Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Department or 
authorized designee. 
2. 
The Committee Chair shall be the Director of the Division of Medicaid Services (DMS). 
3. 
Appointments of committee members will ordinarily be made for a minimum term of two 
years. However, members may serve additional terms as determined by the Director or 
authorized designee. 
  
 
 
 


--- Page 8 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 12 
 
 
Resignation and Removal 
 
1. A member of the Committee may resign by written notice to the Committee Chair and the 
Department. 
 
2. Any member of the Committee may be removed by the Department for good cause. Good cause 
shall include at least one of the following: 
 
a. Nonattendance – Two (2) unexcused consecutive absences from scheduled meetings shall 
constitute a resignation. 
b. Professional misconduct. 
c. Conflict of Interest – Undisclosed or unresolved conflict of interest. 
d. Failure to meet eligibility requirements for Committee appointment. 
 
 
Meeting Facilitation 
 
1. 
The Chair’s designee shall facilitate the Committee meeting in the absence of the Chair. 
2. 
Department staff will prepare the agenda for the Committee meeting in consultation with 
the Committee Chair. 
3. 
Department staff will be responsible to oversee the preparation and posting of a final 
meeting summary in the permanent records of the Committee.  
4. 
An agenda, supplementary clinical materials, minutes of the previous meeting, and written 
testimony submitted by pharmaceutical manufacturers, providers, and others, shall be 
reviewed by Department staff and submitted to Committee members before each meeting. 
 
 
1.3 Committee Responsibilities 
Responsibilities 
 
 
The Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior Authorization Committee has the following 
responsibilities: 
 
1. 
To serve in an evaluation, education and advisory capacity to the Wisconsin Medicaid 
Program specific to the recommendation of preferred and non-preferred status of drugs 
within the PDL. 
2. 
Prior to each meeting, review evidence-based clinical data provided by the Department.  
3. 
To make recommendations to the Department for the drugs to be considered for preferred 
and non-preferred status in selected classes of drugs. 


--- Page 9 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 12 
 
 
4. 
Provide recommendations that are based primarily on objective evaluations of a drug’s 
relative safety, effectiveness, medical necessity, clinical outcomes and relative cost to the 
Wisconsin Medicaid program of the agents, in comparison with other therapeutically 
interchangeable alternative agents in the same class of drugs.   
 
Recommendations of the Committee will be presented to the Secretary for adoption, modification 
or referral back to DMS for further action or review. 
 
1.4 Meeting Guidelines 
Conduct of Meetings 
 
 
1. 
The Prior Authorization Advisory Committee meeting is subject to Wisconsin Open 
Meeting Law – s. 19.81, Wis. Stats. 
2. 
The Committee will meet at least two times per year, or more often as deemed necessary by 
the Department. 
3. 
A part of the committee meeting agenda may be intended for consideration in closed session 
pursuant to s. 19.85(1) (e), Wis. Stats., due to the confidential nature of  manufacturer 
specific Supplemental Rebate Amounts 
4. 
A final meeting summary is the only formal record of the activities of the Committee 
meetings. 
5. 
A simple majority of the standing committee membership of the Committee will constitute a 
quorum. A quorum is the minimum number of committee members who must be present at 
a properly called meeting in order to conduct business in the name of the group. For 
example, if the committee consists of 10 standing members and 3 alternate members, 
quorum is a majority of the standing members, quorum is 6 members. However, the 6 
members required to reach quorum, may be comprised of both standing and/or alternate 
committee members present. 
6. 
Recommendations of the Committee may be taken by a simple majority of committee 
members present provided there is a quorum. 
7. 
All business of the Committee, including recommendations to the Department, shall be 
transacted by motion or resolution in open meeting, which may be made by any member in 
attendance, including the Chair or designee, and shall require a second. 
8. 
Voting on all motions and resolutions shall be conducted in open session. 
9. 
Voting on all motions and resolutions shall be by voice vote unless a member asks that the 
roll be called and that the vote of each member be recorded. 
10. The acts of the majority of the Committee members present at a meeting at which a quorum 
is present shall be the acts of the Committee. 


--- Page 10 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 12 
 
 
Public Participation and Public Testimony 
 
1. 
Meetings will be open to the public, and shall comply with the Wisconsin Open Meetings 
Law. Notice of meetings will also be published on the ForwardHealth Portal, at least 10 days 
prior to each meeting. 
2. 
Speakers are required to submit a Public Testimony Registration form prior to the meeting. 
A copy of the form can be obtained at the following link: 
https://www.forwardhealth.wi.gov/WIPortal/content/provider/pac/index.htm.spage 
3. 
Please email a completed Public Testimony Registration form to 
DHSWIPDL@Wisconsin.gov to reserve a time slot. Speaking requests will be accepted 
approximately 45 days prior to the meeting date.  
4. 
Speakers must also complete the Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior Authorization 
Committee Presenter/Witness Disclosure form.  This form will be emailed to speakers with 
your approximate speaking time. 
5. 
Speakers must submit their completed and signed Presenter/Witness Disclosure form to 
DHSWIPDL@Wisconsin.gov prior to being allowed to speak.   
6. 
If a speaker with an assigned time slot is unable to testify, the speaker must email 
DHSWIPDL@Wisconsin.gov prior to the meeting.  If they have asked someone to speak in 
their place, that person should be identified in the communication. 
7. 
Manufacturers’ or their representatives’ testimony should include the following information: 
o Specific new information that has become available about the drug since the last 
review 
o Any head-to-head studies that have been completed and published in peer reviewed 
medical journals that demonstrate superiority of your product within the class. 
8. 
Written testimony may be submitted for review and consideration by the Committee. 
Written testimony by an individual or group must disclose the writer’s employment, and, if 
not an employee of a drug manufacturer or group, must also disclose whether or not the 
writer or group receives compensation, gratuities or grants from or has an affiliation with 
any drug manufacturer or related group. Individuals writing on their own behalf should 
designate their correspondence as such. 
9. 
Written testimony should be no longer than three pages in length. All other types of 
submitted materials (e.g. package inserts, marketing materials and reports) will not be 
provided to committee members 
10. Written testimony must be emailed to DHSWIPDL@Wisconsin.gov.   Written testimony 
must be received no later than three (3) business days prior to the meeting, to ensure time 
for committee members to receive it. Such communication should not be sent directly to any 
member of the Prior Authorization Committee, State staff or State contracted 
representatives. Only written testimony received at the above email address will be provided 
to committee members 
11. A speaker’s waiting list will be kept and speakers will be allotted time to speak, in the order 
speaking requests were received, only if cancellations occur. 


--- Page 11 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 12 
 
 
12. Speakers are allowed only one four minute time slot in up to two individual drug classes. 
13. Speakers may only provide testimony regarding drugs included in the specific drug class 
assigned to each four minute time slot.  
14. The Committee Chair or designee may modify the time allotted to a speaker for comment as 
necessary to facilitate the work of the Committee. 
15. Multiple speakers per company or organization will be permitted within the same four 
minute time slot per drug class. 
16. All speakers are required to disclose who they represent, including any financial relationships 
and conflict of interest. This is to be done on the Speaker Conflict of Interest disclosure 
form as well as when addressing the Prior Authorization Advisory Committee 
17. Speakers will be required to state their name, organization represented and the drug name(s) 
and class applicable to their testimony. 
18. Speakers will be limited to clinical, scientific and/or personal experience testimony. 
Testimony regarding pricing is not permitted. 
19. Time will be allotted for Committee members to ask questions of the speakers after 
testimony has been heard on each drug class. 
 
1.5 Disclosure of Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality 
Requirements 
The Chair of the Committee or authorized designee is authorized and directed to see that the 
following policies are adhered to: 
 
Disclosure of Conflict of Interest 
 
1. 
The Committee will operate in a manner that ensures the objectivity and credibility of its 
recommendations. To that end, each Committee member will be required to execute an 
agreement to disclose conflicts of interest and will have an ongoing duty to disclose any 
conflicts of interest to the Committee Chair and the Department. 
2. 
A member of the Committee shall disclose a conflict of interest at the beginning of 
consideration of any matter in which the member has or may have a conflict of interest, or at 
the point during consideration when a potential conflict of interest becomes apparent to the 
member. After disclosure, the member may continue to participate in discussion, but shall 
abstain in any vote taken. Minutes of the meeting will reflect the disclosure and abstention 
from voting. Any question as to whether a conflict of interest exists shall be referred to the 
Chair/Medicaid Director. 
3. 
Committee members failing to report any conflict of interest in this area will be subject to 
immediate dismissal from the Committee. 
 
 
 


--- Page 12 ---
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 12 
 
 
A conflict of interest exists whenever: 
 
o You, a member of your immediate family, or an organization with which you are associated 
has a substantial financial interest in the outcome of a matter; or 
o The outcome of a matter may produce or assist in producing a substantial financial benefit, 
direct or indirect, for you, one or more members of your immediate family, or an 
organization with which you are associated; or 
o You, a member of your immediate family, or an organization with which you are associated 
receive money or any other thing of value from a company or other organization that has a 
financial interest in the outcome of a matter. 
 
“Immediate family” includes your spouse and any relative by marriage, lineal descent or adoption 
who receives more than one-half of his or her support from you or from whom you receive more 
than one-half of your support. 
 
“Organization with which you are associated” includes any organization in which you or a member 
of your immediate family is a director, officer or trustee, or owns or controls, directly or indirectly, at 
least 10% of the outstanding equity or of which you or a member of your immediate family is an 
authorized representative or agent. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
 
Each Committee member must comply with all HIPAA requirements regarding disclosure of patient 
information. 
 
Information about any Medicaid recipient is confidential and may be used or disclosed only for 
purposes directly related to Medicaid administration, as determined by the State Medicaid Agency. 
No member of the Wisconsin Medicaid Pharmacy Prior Authorization Committee (“Committee”) 
may disclose to any person any information regarding any Medicaid recipient. 
 
Some information not related to Medicaid recipients that members of the Committee may obtain in 
the course of their participation on the Committee may qualify as trade secret under Wisconsin law. 
Such information will be clearly identified as such.  No member may disclose any trade secret 
information obtained in the course of participation on the Committee. If a member receives a 
request to disclose such information, the member shall refer the request to the Chair/Medicaid 
Director.
