STATE: Louisiana
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://ldh.la.gov/assets/medicaid/pharmacommittee/docs/PTM.pdf
SEED_URL: https://ldh.la.gov/medicaid/pharmaceutical-and-therapeutic-committee
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Meeting Minutes - November 2, 2011
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
1
LOUISIANA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 
Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee Meeting 
628 North Fourth Street 
Baton Rouge, LA 
Bienville Building 
Room #118 
November 02, 2011 
MINUTES 
MEMBERS PRESENT: 
Damion Cummins, PhD 
Julio Figueroa, MD 
John E. Firestone, Jr., MD 
Amy Givler, MD 
Larry J. Hebert, MD 
James E. Hussey, MD 
Edward C. Mader, Jr, MD 
Marty R.McKay, RPh 
Paul Miller, MD 
Melvin Murrill, MD 
James Patterson, MD 
Rep. Rogers Pope 
Mohammad Suleman, MD 
Leonard Weather, Jr, MD 
Julie Wilkinson, PharmD 
Rodney Wise, MD 
Pamela Wiseman, MD 
Neil Wolfson, MD 
MEMBERS ABSENT: 
DHH PHARMACY 
PROGRAM STAFF 
PRESENT: 
M. J. Terrebonne, RPh 
Director 
Rachel Broussard, RPh 
Germaine Becks-Moody, 
PhD, BHSF 
Program Manager 
Timothy Williams, BHSF 
Program Manager 
OTHER DHH STAFF 
PRESENT: 
Rebecca DeLaSalle, Attorney 
CONTRACTORS 
PRESENT: 
Kris Rawlings, PharmD, 
Provider Synergies 
Melissa Dear, PharmD, 
Northeast La 
University School of 
Pharmacy 
Jennifer Pickett, Certified 
Court Reporter 
OTHERS PRESENT: 
Presenters are listed in the 
minutes, and sign in sheets of 
others in attendance are 
available from DHH, Bureau 
of Health Services Financing, 
Pharmacy Benefits Section 
upon request. 
Lolie C. Yu, MD 
Conchetta Fulton, PharmD 
Mary Gauthier-Lewis, 
PharmD 
Call to Order: 
Dr. Larry Hebert, Chairman, called the meeting to order at 8:05 a.m. He introduced Dr. Kris Rawlings 
with Provider Synergies and Ms. Rebecca DeLaSalle, the new DHH legal counsel for the Committee. 
Parliamentary Business: 
A. 
Roll Call. Roll was called. Fourteen members were present. Absent were Dr. Fulton, Dr. 
Gauthier-Lewis, Dr. Mader, Dr. Suleman, Dr. Wiseman, Dr. Wolson and Dr. Yu. 
B. 
Approval of Minutes. Mr. McKay offered a motion to approve the minutes of the April 27, 
2011 meeting as submitted. Dr. Weather seconded the motion which passed. 
C. 
Executive Session – Ethics. Dr. Hebert made a motion to go into Executive Session. Mr. 
McKay seconded the motion. 
--- Page 2 ---
2
Dr. Hebert stated the purpose of the Executive Session was to have Mr. Mike Dupree from the 
Louisiana Board of Ethics discuss with the Committee the ramifications of complying with the 
ethics laws. Executive Session permitted the members to Q and A with Mr. Dupree. Only 
Committee members and DHH Executive staff were permitted at the meeting. After a vote, with 
no objection, the Committee went into Executive Session. 
After Executive Session, Dr. Hebert asked Dr. Becks-Moody to call the roll again as several 
members arrived after the first roll call. The count was eighteen members. 
Dr. Hebert reported the Executive Session consisted of a presentation by Mr. Mike Dupree 
from the Louisiana Board of Ethics on the issues of ethics concerning the activities both 
professional and financial of the P&T members and provided Q and A for the members. 
D. 
Bylaws Subcommittee Appointment. Dr. Hebert reported that the Bylaws needed updating, and 
there had been some recommendations for revisions. He appointed a Bylaws Subcommittee, and 
Mr. Marty McKay was appointed to serve as Chair. Other members appointed were Dr. Lollie 
Yu, Dr. Julie Wilkinson, and Dr. Melvin Murrill. 
E. 
Announcement of Election of Officers. Dr. Hebert announced the Committee would have the 
election officers at the next April or May meeting (depending on date set). He said there were 
two reasons. First, there was a change in the times the Committee meets per year, and second, it 
will give the Governor, in his new term, time to appoint new members by that time. 
Old Business – Reports Requested by the Committee During the 4/24/2011 Meeting: 
A. 
Coverage of New Drugs to be Listed on Preferred Drug List (PDL). Ms. M. J. Terrebonne 
told the group one of the questions asked at the last meeting pertained to the coverage of new 
drugs to be listed on the PDL. 
Ms. Terrebonne explained, “Under the federal statute, state Medicaid programs are required to 
reimburse for those FDA approved products for which a pharmaceutical company has entered 
into a rebate agreement with the federal government. There are just a limited number of excluded 
drug classes. In addition to that, the state statutes state that any drug approved by the United 
States Food and Drug Administration shall be added to the formulary as soon as it becomes 
commercially available. Additionally, the State Plan, which is the Louisiana Medicaid agreement 
with the federal government, states that FDA approved drugs are covered drugs if the drug 
manufacturer has signed the federal rebate agreement. When we established the PDL, the feds 
allowed the establishment of a prior authorization program with a PDL. There are only a selected 
number of therapeutic classes that are actually on the PDL and require prior authorization. Those 
drugs that are not in the therapeutic classes on the PDL are considered automatically prior 
authorized. So I just wanted to clarify that question. I believe there was a question last meeting. 
So that it would be clear to everyone that if there is an FDA approved drug that comes out, the 
Medicaid agencies are required to go ahead and cover those products.” 
In response to a question from Dr. Givler, Ms. Terrebonne explained, “If the drug class is not 
one reviewed, then those drugs that are FDA approved and the drug manufacturer has signed the 
federal rebate are covered.” 
--- Page 3 ---
3
B. 
Notice of Intent Revising Length of a Prescription. Ms. Terrebonne told the Committee that at 
the last meeting members inquired if DHH would consider lengthening prescription refills. She 
said she discussed that item with executive management and was approved to move forward with 
that change. 
Ms. Terrebonne reported staff has begun the rule making and State Plan amendment process to 
allow the change for payment of prescription refills for drugs other than controlled substances not 
more than eleven times or more than one year after the issue date, and only to the extent indicated 
by the prescriber on the original prescription and as restricted by state and federal laws. The 
targeted effective date is February 20, 2012. 
C. 
EPO Agents – Report from DHH/PBM Drug Utilization Review Board. Ms. Terrebonne 
reported Dr. Hebert met with the Drug Utilization Review Board members at their August 
meeting regarding guidelines and edits for ESA agents. 
She reported, “At this meeting, Dr. Larry Humbles, with the University of Louisiana in Monroe 
College of Pharmacy presented data on Pharmacy claims billed for ESA’s in state fiscal year 
2011. The members of the DUR Board were provided tables highlighting the number of 
pharmacy claims billed for ESA’s as well as the specialties of these prescribing providers. The 
use of EPO at doses greater than 20,000 units was discussed. Following up on this meeting, I 
believe, in June, 2011, the FDA considered a request to impose an upper limit on the 
recommended dose of EPO in chronic kidney disease. The FDA denied the request to impose an 
upper limit citing a lack of evidence. Per the FDA, the dose is dependent, among other things, on 
the hemoglobin target and treatment response with the dose potentially changing over time. 
For state fiscal year 2011, Medicaid pharmacy claims and prescription photocopies for EPO were 
reviewed. Most doses were from 20,000 units to 40,000 units per week. Additionally, it should 
be noted that we looked at the pharmacy outpatient claims and did not include a review of the 
utilization of these products in other outpatient areas such as dialysis centers. In June, 20ll, the 
FDA also responded to a request to specify a safer target hemoglobin range for ESA use in 
chronic kidney disease. As a result, the product labeling for ESA’s, with regard to chronic kidney 
disease, was updated to reflect the risk associated with a target hemoglobin greater than 11 grams 
per deciliter. As a result, the DUR Board, at their meeting voted to review ESA pharmacy 
claims retrospectively, to send those prescribing providers who prescribe ESA agents, 
information regarding the FDA modified dosing recommendations for the use of ESA’s in 
chronic kidney disease as well as to send patient profiles.” 
D. 
Growth Hormones – Clinical Criteria Used by other Medicaid States. Dr. Kris Rawlings, 
Provider Synergies, reported on the Committee request that Provider Synergies look at the growth 
hormone criteria that other states are using. Dr. Rawlings reported she surveyed 33 states which 
had publicly available either prior authorization criteria or prior authorization forms available on 
the web. Thirteen of these states are states in which Magellan and Medicaid administration are 
and Provider Synergies is a part of. So it’s beyond just states that Provider Synergies manages or 
is involved with pharmacists’ services. She reported that she found prior authorization criteria 
vary greatly from state to state. She said there are very lenient or non-existent programs on one 
hand and on the other there are very detailed comprehensive forms which require a lot of 
documentation of the underlying diagnosis, the labs identifying growth hormone deficiency as 
well as growth charts and many other pieces of documentation. There are also specialized forms 
--- Page 4 ---
4
for adults, pediatrics, HIV, and the detail required on each of these forms varies. She reported 
she submitted a report to the Department of her findings. 
New Business: 
A. 
Therapeutic Classes Reviews/Drug Manufacturer Testimony. Thirty two (32) therapeutic 
classes in Group Two of the Tenth Review Cycle were reviewed. Dr. Hebert explained the 
Committee’s review procedures. Monograph summaries were sent to the Committee prior 
to the meeting. In accordance with state law and the P&T Committee’s Bylaws, the 
following provided public testimony or answered questions raised by the Committee during the 
Committee’s review of the therapeutic classes. 
PRESENTER 
REPRESENTING 
DRUG/ISSUE 
Alan Blout, MD 
Forest Laboratories 
Namenda 
Paul Dammers, MD 
NeuroMedical Center 
Namenda 
Julia Compton, PharmD 
Novartis 
Exelon Patch 
Ann Wicker 
Pfizer 
Flector Patch 
Jolyn Rosenthal 
Forest 
Viibryd 
Paul Dammers , MD 
NeuroMedical Center 
Viibryd 
Kirsten Mar 
Eli Lilly 
Cymbalta 
Ann Wicker 
Pfizer 
Pristiq 
Fran Kaiser, MD 
Merck 
Saphris 
Michele Arledge, PharmD 
Janssen 
Invega Sustenna 
Tarlyn Carlton, MD 
Bristol Myers Squibb 
Abilify 
Tim Burke 
Astra Zeneca 
Seroquel XR 
Guy Brannon, MD 
Brentwood 
Latuda 
Manny Garcia, MD 
Sunovion 
Latuda 
Julia Compton, PharmD 
Novartis 
Fanapt 
Jennie Jantz 
NAMI LA 
Antipsychotics 
Brittany Howard 
Mental Health America of LA Antipsychotics 
James Barbee, MD 
Bristol Myers Squibb 
Antipsychotics 
James Osborne 
GSK 
Ventolin HFA 
Shane Perrilloux 
TEVA 
ProAir HFA 
Julia Compton, PharmD 
Novartis 
Arcapta 
Alan Blau 
Forest Laboratories 
Daliresp 
Brad Clay 
Amgen 
Enbrel 
Curt Griffin 
UCB 
Cimzia 
Gary Riley 
Abbott Labs 
Humira 
James Osborne 
GSK 
Advair; Flovent 
Fran Kaiser, MD 
Merck 
Dulera 
Sarah Caffery 
Astra Zeneca 
Symbicort; Pulmicort Flexhaler 
Eileen Jaraez 
Astellas Pharma 
Protopic 
Fran Kaiser, MD 
Merck 
Singulair 
Tim Burke 
Astra Zeneca 
Vimovo 
Christopher Murphy 
GSK 
Voltrient;Tykerb 
John Rainey, MD 
La Oncology Society 
Oncology Agents, Oral 
Anne Smallworth, MD 
Bristol Myers Squibb 
Sprycal 
Lonnie Wen 
Pfizer 
Sutent 
B. Provitula 
Alcon 
Pataday; Patanal 
--- Page 5 ---
5
Robert Gonzales 
Alcon 
Pataday; Patanal 
B. Provitula 
Alcon 
Moxezal;Vigamox 
Robert Gonzales 
Alcon 
Moxezal;Vigamox 
B. Provitula 
Alcon 
Ciprodex 
Robert Gonzales 
Alcon 
Ciprodex 
Hunter Hardner 
La Sleep Foundation 
Lunesta 
Ann Wicker 
Pfizer 
Chantix 
Kirsten Mar 
Eli Lilly 
Strattera 
John M. Giblin, MD 
Shionogi 
Kapvay 
Angela Day 
Shire 
Vyvanase; Intuniv 
Michele Arledge, PharmD 
Janssen 
Xarelto 
Fran Kaiser, MD 
Merck 
Victrelis 
Dan Petty 
Vertex 
Incivek 
Robert Mahumunca 
Incivek 
Dr. Derek Tevada 
Boehringer Ingelheim 
Tradjenta 
(Transcripts of testimonies are available from DHH, Bureau of Health Services Financing, 
Pharmacy Benefits Section, upon request.) 
Class Review 
Number 
10-2;1. Alzheimer’s Agents 
Dr. Figueroa offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Suleman. Mr. McKay asked if the state was planning to 
place a state Maximum Allowable Cost on the generics in this class. Ms. Terrebonne 
responded that she would check with Myers and Stauffer, the contractor and report to the 
Committee at the next meeting. After discussion and manufacturers’ presentations, the 
motion passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Donepezil (Aricept) 
Donepezil (Aricept ODT) 
Memantine Sol (Namenda Sol) 
Memantine Tab (NamendaTab) 
Memantine Tab DS Pk (Namenda Tab DS Pk) 
Rivastigmine Cap (Exelon Cap) 
Rivastigmine Transdermal (Exelon Transdermal) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Donepezil (Generics only) 
Donepezil ODT (Generics only) 
Donepezil 23 mg (Aricept 23mg) 
Galantamine Tab 
Galantamine ER 
Galantamine Oral Sol (Generics; Razadyne) 
Rivastigmine Cap (Generic) 
Rivastigmine Oral Solution (Generic; Exelon Solution) 
--- Page 6 ---
6
Note: Tacrine (Cognex) is no longer available. 
10-2;2. Analgesics-Anesthetics, Topical 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Weather. Dr. Wilkinson asked why Qutenza or Capsicin 
patches were not included in the review. Dr. Rawlings explained that was not a covered 
product because it is a physician administered drug in the physician’s office. After 
discussion and manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a roll 
call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Diclofenac Sodium Gel (Voltaren) 
Lidocaine Patch (Lidoderm) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Diclofenac Epolamine Patch (Flector) 
Diclofenac Sodium (Pennsaid) 
10-2;3. Antidepressants, Other 
Dr. Hussey offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. The pharmaceutical manufacturers’ presentations 
and discussion followed. 
Dr. Mader commented that several antidepressants have other indications, for example in 
the treatment of fibromyalgia. He asked would these drugs be reviewed later on in the 
fibromyalgia category. Dr. Rawlings explained that Louisiana does not currently have a 
fibromyalgia category. She clarified that each drug is only in one category so a conflict 
doesn’t occur in the situation as stated in Dr. Mader’s question. 
Discussion continued on the Provider Synergies’ recommendation to exclude Cymbalta 
from the PDL. Dr. Rawlings explained that Eli Lilly submitted its bid for Cymbalta after 
the deadline passed, and therefore could not be considered as it was out of the process. 
Dr. Givler then offered a motion, seconded by Dr.Suleman, that the Committee 
reconsider Cymbalta at the spring meeting on the basis of Lilly’s belated offer. Dr. 
Rawlings clarified that the rebate contracts are for one year, and Dr. Givler withdrew 
her motion until after the Committee voted on the recommendations presented for the 
class at today’s meeting. A roll call vote followed with all members voting favorably, 
except Dr. Cummins. The motion passed. 
Dr. Givler then offered a motion to reconsider Cymbalta at the spring meeting. Dr. 
Weather seconded the motion. Discussion followed, and Ms. Terrebonne clarified that 
the Cymbalta bid came in very late and was out of conformity with the bid process that 
requires bids to be submitted by the 30th of the month. Dr. Wolfson called for question. 
Roll call vote followed. There were nine yeas and eight nays. (Dr. Figueroa, Dr. 
Firestone, Dr. Hussey, Dr. Murrill, Mr. McKay, Dr. Patterson, Dr. Wilkinson and Dr. 
Wise voted nay.) The motion passed. 
--- Page 7 ---
7
It was clarified the Committee would reconsider Cymbalta at its spring meeting. Dr. 
Rawlings explained it would be the same cost sheet with the Cymbalta offer added. 
There will be no solicitation for offers for the other drugs. Dr. Becks-Moody explained 
the process would be like having a new drug considered. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Bupropion IR 
Bupropion SR 
Bupropion XL 
Mirtazapine (Generics only) 
Mirtazapine ODT (Generics only) 
Trazodone 
Venlafaxine ER Cap (Effexor XR) 
Venlafaxine IR Tab 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Bupropion HBr ER (Aplenzin) 
Bupropion HCl IR (Wellbutrin) 
Bupropion HCl SR (Wellbutrin SR) 
Bupropion HCl XL (Wellbutrin XL) 
Desvenlafaxine (Pristiq) 
Duloxetine (Cymbalta) 
Mirtazapine (Remeron) 
Mirtazapine ODT (Remeron ODT) 
Nefazodone 
Selegiline Patch (Emsam) 
Trazodone ER (Oleptro) 
Venlafaxine ER Cap (Generic) 
Venlafaxine ER Tab (Generic; Schwarz; Upstate) 
Vilazodone (Viibryd) 
10-2;4. Antidepressants, Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) 
Dr. Hussey offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Citalopram Tab (Generic) 
Fluoxetine Cap (Generic) 
Fluoxetine Tab 10mg 
Fluoxetine Sol 
Fluvoxamine Oral 
Paroxetine Susp (Paxil) 
Paroxetine CR Tab (Paxil CR) 
Paroxetine Tab (Paxil) 
Paroxetine Tab (Generic) 
--- Page 8 ---
8
Sertraline Tab (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Citalopram Sol 
Citalopram Tab (Celexa) 
Escitalopram Sol (Lexapro) 
Escitalopram Tab (Lexapro) 
Fluoxetine Tab 20 mg 
Fluoxetine Cap (Prozac; Sarafem) 
Fluoxetine DR Cap (Generic; Prozac Weekly) 
Fluvoxamine CR (Luvox CR) 
Paroxetine Susp (Generic) 
Paroxetine CR Tab (Generic) 
Paroxetine Mesylate (Pexeva) 
Sertraline Conc (Zoloft; Generic) 
Sertraline Tab (Zoloft) 
10-2;5. Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating 
Dr. Wolfson asked if all of the drugs mentioned in this category were available over the 
counter. Upon receiving an affirmative answer, he questioned why these drugs were 
being subjected to the PDL process at all and asked if the Committee could recommend 
deleting this class from the process. Discussions and clarafications followed. Dr. 
Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The motion 
was seconded by Dr. Weather. Ms. Terrebonne explained that the category could be 
removed from program coverage if after several months of state rulemaking, the federal 
government approved a state plan amendment encompassing this change. It was also 
explained the current agenda was recommending Committee voting on Provider 
Synergies’ recommendations. After discussion and no pharmaceutical manufacturers’ 
requests to make presentations, the motion passed with fourteen yeas and three nays by 
Drs. Cummings, Miller and Wolfson in a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Certirizine Syr OTC (Generic) 
Cetirizine Syr Rx (Generic) 
Cetirizine Tab OTC (Generic) 
Cetirizine-D OTC (Generic) 
Fexofenadine Tab 30mg, 60mg, 180mg (Generic) 
Fexofenadine-D 12-hour (Generic) 
Fexofenadine-D 24-hour (Generic) 
Loratadine Tab OTC (Generic) 
0Loratadine ODT Tab OTC (Generic) 
Loratadine-D Tab (Generic) 
Loratadine Syrup OTC (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Acrivastin/Pseudoephedrine (Semprex-D) 
Cetirizine Chewable Tab OTC (Generic) 
Cetirizine Sol 5mg/5cc OTC (Generic) 
--- Page 9 ---
9
Desloratadine Tab (Clarinex) 
Desloratadine Chew OTC (Clarinex Chew OTC) 
Desloratadine ODT (Clarinex ODT) 
Desloratadine Syrup (Clarinex) 
Desloratadine/Pseudoephedrine (Clarinex-D 12-hour) 
Fexofenadine Tab 30mg, 60mg, 180mg (Allegra) 
Fexofenadine ODT Tab (Allegra ODT) 
Fexofenadine/Pseudoephedrine (Allegra-D 12-hour) 
Fexofenadine/Pseudoephedrine (Allegra-D 24-hour) 
Fexofenadine Syrup (Allegra Syrup) 
Levocetirizine Tab (Generic; Xyzal) 
Levocetirizine Syrup (Generic ; Xyzal) 
Loratadine Cap OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine Syrup OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine Tab OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine Chewable Tab OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine ODT Tab OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine-D 12 hours Tab OTC (Claritin) 
Loratadine-D 24 hoursTab (Claritin) 
Loratadine-D Tab (Claritin) 
10-2-6. Antihyperuricemics 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Weather. Upon a question from Dr. Givler, Dr. Rawlings 
stated a rebate offer for Colcrys was made, but the cost remained at a premium. After 
discussion and no pharmaceutical manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the 
motion passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Allopurinol 
Probenecid 
Probenecid/Colchicine 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Colchicine (Colcrys) 
Febuxostat (Uloric) 
10-2;7. Antiparkinson’s Agents 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Figueroa. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Benztropine 
Carbidopa /Levodopa 
--- Page 10 ---
10
Carbidopa /Levodopa ER (Generic) 
Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone (Stalevo) 
Pramipexole (Generic) 
Ropinirole (Generic) 
Selegiline Tab (Generic) 
Trihexyphenidyl Elix 
Trihexyphenidyl Tab 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Bromocriptine 
Carbidopa /Levodopa ER (Sinemet CR) 
Carbidopa /Levodopa ODT 
Entacapone (Comtan) 
Pramipexole (Mirapex) 
Pramipexole ER (Mirapex ER) 
Rasagiline (Azilect) 
Ropinirole (Requip) 
Ropinirole ER (Requip XL) 
Selegiline Cap 
Selegiline (Zelapar) 
Tolcapone (Tasmar) 
10-2;8. Antipsychotics 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Givler. Discussions and pharmaceutical manufacturers’ 
presentations followed. Dr. Guy Brannen, Brentwood Hospital, stated the employees at 
the DHH Office of Behavioral Health mental health centers in Shreveport and Baton will 
not request PAs. He said if they don’t see a drug on the list, they will not use it. 
Chairman Hebert, said he was shocked to hear those comments. He referred the speaker 
to Dr. Hussey who said this was not accurate to his knowledge. Dr. Hussey said that if 
the patient needs a particular medication it is the clinician’s responsibility to perform the 
work necessary for the PA. 
Dr. Rawlings replied, in response to a question, Seroquel XR was currently on the PDL, 
but was recommended for PA. When questioned further, Dr. Rawlings acknowledged 
she could not say if program savings would change in any way by adding Seroquel XR 
to the PDL as CMS had not released clear guidance on how the federal rebate would be 
handled with the XR or ER formulations of drugs. She stated that Provider Synergies had 
received a rebate offer on Seroquel XR, and it would be budget neutral to the state at this 
time. She acknowledged the rebate offer had been made timely. 
Discussion followed, and the motion then passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
ORAL 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Amitriptyline/Perphenazine Oral Sol (Generic) 
Aripiprazole Discmelt (Abilify) 
Aripiprazole Tab (Abilify) 
--- Page 11 ---
11
Asenapine (Saphris) 
Chlorpromazine 
Clozapine (Generic) 
Fluphenazine Elix (Generic) 
Fluphenazine Tab (Generic) 
Haloperidol Oral (Generic) 
Haloperidol Lactate Conc (Generic) 
Iloperidone Dskpak (Fanapt) 
Iloperidone Tab (Fanapt) 
Molindone (Moban) 
Perphenazine 
Pimozide (Orap) 
Quetiapine (Seroquel) 
Risperidone ODT (Generic) 
Risperidone Sol (Generic) 
Risperidone Tab (Generic) 
Thioridazine 
Thiothixene (Generic; Navane) 
Trifluoperazine (Generic) 
Ziprasidone (Geodon) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Aripiprazole Oral Sol (Abilify Oral Sol) 
Clozapine (Clozaril; Fazaclo) 
Lurasidone (Latuda) 
Olanzapine (Zyprexa; Zyprexa Zydis) 
Olanzapine/Fluoxetine (Symbyax) 
Paliperidone ER (Invega) 
Quetiapine ER (Seroquel XR) 
Risperidone ODT (Risperdal) 
Risperidone Sol (Risperdal) 
Risperidone Tab (Risperdal) 
INJECTIONS 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Aripiprazole (Abilify) 
Fluphenazine Decanoate 
Haloperidol Decanoate (Generic) 
Haloperidol Lactate (Generic) 
Risperidone (Risperdal Consta) 
Ziprasidone (Geodon) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Haloperidol Decanoate (Haldol) 
Olanzapine (Zyprexa) 
Olanzapine (Zyprexa Relprevv) 
Paliperidone (Invega Sustenna) 
--- Page 12 ---
12
10-2;9. Bile Acid Salts 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Weather. After no discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed by roll call vote with 
sixteen yeas and one nay by Dr. Miller. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Ursodiol Cap (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Chenodiol (Chenodal) 
Ursodiol Tab (Generic) 
Ursodiol USP (Actigall) 
Ursodiol (URSO 250) 
Ursodiol (URSO Forte) 
10-2;10.Bronchodilators, Beta Adrenergic Agents 
Dr. Givler offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
INHALATION 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate Nebulizer Sol 100mg/20ml (Generic) 
Albuterol Sulfate Nebulizer Sol 2.5mg/3ml (Generic) 
Albuterol Sulfate Nebulizer Sol 2.5mg/0.5ml (Generic) 
Albuterol Sulfate Nebulizer Low-Dose (Accuneb) 
Albuterol Sulfate HFA (ProAir HFA) 
Albuterol Sulfate HFA MDI (Proventil HFA) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate HFA MDI (Ventolin HFA) 
Albuterol Sulfate Nebulizer Low-Dose (Generic) 
Arformoterol Inhalation Solution (Brovana) 
Formoterol DPI (Foradil) 
Formoterol Inhalation Solution (Perforomist) 
Indacaterol for Inhalation (Arcapta) 
Levalbuterol HCL Neb Sol (generic; Xopenex) 
Levalbuterol HFA (Xopenex HFA) 
Pirbuterol MDI (Maxair Autohaler) 
Salmeterol Xinafoate (Serevent Diskus) 
ORAL 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate Syrup 
--- Page 13 ---
13
Albuterol Sulfate Tab 
Albuterol Sulfate ER 
Metaproterenol Sulfate Syrup 
Terbutaline Sulfate 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate ER Tab (Generic; Vospire ER Tab) 
Metaproterenol Sulfate Tab 
10-2;11.Bronchodilators, Anticholinergic (COPD) 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Weather. After discussion and pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed by roll call vote with sixteen yeas and 
and one nay by Dr. Murrill. 
INHALATION 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate/Ipratropium MDI (Combivent) 
Albuterol Sulfate/Ipratropium Nebulizer Sol (Duoneb) 
Ipratropium Nebulizer 
Ipratropium Inhalation Aerosol MDI (Atrovent HFA) 
Tiotropium Inhalation Powder (Spiriva) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Albuterol Sulfate/Ipratropium Nebulizer (Generic) 
ORAL 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
None 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Roflumilast (Daliresp) 
10-2;12.Cytokine and CAM Antagonists 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Mr. McKay. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed by roll call vote with 
sixteen yeas and one nay by Dr. Miller. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Adalimumab Inj (Humira IJ Kit; Humira Kit) 
Certolizumab Pegol (Cimzia Kit; Syringe Kit) 
Etanercept Inj (Enbrel Kit; Pen; Disp Syringe) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
--- Page 14 ---
14
Abatacept (Orencia Inj; Orencia Sub-Q) 
Alefacept Injection (Amevive) 
Anakinra Injection (Kineret) 
Golimumab (Simponi Pen; Disp Syringe) 
Infliximab Injection (Remicade) 
Tocilizumab (Actemra) 
10-2;13.Glucocorticoids, Inhaled 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Beclomethasone MDI (QVAR) 
Budesonide Respules 0.25mg; 0.5mg - 8 years old & under 
Budesonide Respules 0.25mg; 0.5mg (Pulmicort Respules) - 8 years old & under 
Budesonide Respules 1mg (Pulmicort Respules) - 8 years old & under 
Fluticasone MDI (Flovent) 
Fluticasone MDI (Flovent HFA Inhaler) 
Fluticasone/Salmeterol DPI (Advair Diskus) 
Fluticasone/Salmeterol MDI (Advair HFA) 
Mometasone DPI (Asmanex) 
Mometasone/Formoterol MDI (Dulera) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Budesonide DPI (Pulmicort Flexhaler) 
Budesonide Respules 0.25mg; 0.5mg - 9 years old & over 
Budesonide Respules 0.25mg; 0.5mg (Pulmicort Respules) - 9 years old & over 
Budesonide Respules 1mg (Pulmicort Respules) - 9 years old & over 
Budesonide/Formoterol MDI (Symbicort) 
Ciclesonide MDI (Alvesco) 
Note: Flunisolide MDI (Aerobid) and Flunisolide MDI (Aerobid-M) are no 
longer available. 
10-2;14.Immunomodulators, Atopic Dermatitis 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Suleman. 
Dr. Murrill offered an amendment to also include Tacrolimus (Protopic). Dr. Suleman 
seconded the motion for the amendment. The amendment passed unanimously with a roll 
call vote. After discussion and pharmaceutical manufacturers’ presentations, the original 
motion as amended passed unanimously with a roll call vote to include Elidel and 
Protopic on the PDL. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
--- Page 15 ---
15
Pimecrolimus (Elidel) 
Tacrolimus (Protopic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
None 
10-2;15.Intranasal Rhinitis Agents 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Murrill. Discussion followed. 
Dr. Givler offered an amendment to add Flonase to the PDL. Dr. Wiseman seconded the 
motion. Discussion followed. The amendment passed unanimously in a roll call vote. 
After discussion and no pharmaceutical manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, 
the motion to approve Provider Synergies recommendations as amended to include 
Flonase in the PDL passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Azelastine (Astelin; Astepro) 
Fluticasone Propionate (Flonase) 
Ipratropium Nasal 
Mometasone (Nasonex) 
Olopatadine (Patanase) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are 
Azelastine (Generic) 
Beclomethasone (Beconase AQ) 
Budesonide Aqua (Rhinocort Aqua) 
Ciclesonide (Omnaris) 
Flunisolide 
Fluticasone Furoate (Veramyst) 
Fluticasone Propionate (Generic) 
Triamcinolone (Generic; Nasacort AQ) 
10-2;16.Leukotriene Modifiers 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. W eather. After discussion and pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Montelukast Chew Tab (Singulair) 
Montelukast Tab (Singulair) 
Zafirlukast (Accolate) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are 
--- Page 16 ---
16
Montelukast Gran Pack (Singulair Gran Pack) 
Zafirlukast (Generic) 
Zileuton CR (Zyflo CR) 
10-2;17.Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatories (NSAIDS) 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Mr. McKay. After discussion and pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed in a roll call vote with sixteen yeas and 
one nay by Dr. Miller. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Diclofenac Potassium Oral (Generic) 
Diclofenac Sodium Oral (Generic) 
Esomeprazole/naproxen (Vimovo) 
Etodolac 
Flurbiprofen 
Ibuprofen Rx Susp (Generic) 
Ibuprofen Rx Tab (Generic) 
Indomethacin Cap (Generic only) 
Indomethacin Susp (Indocin ) 
Ketoprofen 
Ketorolac 
Meloxicam Susp (Mobic) 
Meloxicam Tab (Generic only) 
Naproxen EC (Generic only) 
Naproxen Sod (Generic Only) 
Naproxen Susp (Generic only) 
Naproxen Tab (Generic only) 
Oxaprozin 
Piroxicam (Generic; Feldene) 
Sulindac 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Celecoxib (Celebrex) 
Diclofenac/Misoprostol (Arthrotec) 
Diclofenac Potassium (Zipsor) 
Diclofenac SR 
Diflunisal (Generic; Dolobid) 
Etodolac SR 
Fenoprofen (Generic; Nalfon) 
Indomethacin Rectal (Indocin) 
Indomethacin ER Cap (Generic) 
Ketoprofen ER 
Ketorolac Nasal Spray (Sprix) 
Meclofenamate 
Mefenamic Acid (Generic; Ponstel) 
Meloxicam Susp (Generic only) 
Meloxicam Tab (Mobic) 
--- Page 17 ---
17
Nabumetone 
Naproxen EC (Naprosyn) 
Naproxen Susp (Naprosyn) 
Naproxen Tab (Naprosyn) 
Naproxen 500mg (Naprelan) 
Tolmetin Cap 
Tolmetin Tab 
10-2;18. Oncology Agents, Oral (New Category) 
Dr. Weather offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Givler. Discussion followed. 
There were many questions regarding availability, prior authorizations and other 
procedures regarding access to these drugs. Also Provider Synergies, in its cost savings 
estimates, estimated only 20% of the patients could be switched. 
Dr. Rainey with the Louisiana Oncology Society expressed his concerns and those of his 
colleagues to the Committee. He commented there may or may not be rebate monies had 
from the process, but basically the prescribers are specialists, and the pharmacies used are 
specialty pharmacies (only about three or four in the state). 
After discussion and pharmaceutical manufacturers’ presentations, the motion passed in a 
roll call vote with sixteen yeas and one nay by Dr. Miller. 
Dr. Hebert then asked the Committee what it would like to do at the next meeting 
regarding this class. Dr. Miller offered a motion, seconded by Dr. Wolfson, to re-discuss 
this class at the next meeting. The motion passed unanimously. 
Discussion continued, and it was noted by Dr. Rawlings that no supplemental rebate 
offers were received for this class. 
Dr. Miller inquired if the Committee could consider proposing tiered structures. Dr. 
Hebert replied affirmatively, but said that would come under other business. 
In summary, this motion is to review this class again at the spring meeting with the 
information regarding this class and the impact on access as well as provider restrictions 
and possible roles for the DHH DUR Board. Dr. Rawlings responded to Ms.
Terrebonne’s question concerning the policies for this class in other TOPS states, and 
said Louisiana is one of three TOPS states using the PDL process for this class. She 
added that even large states, like Florida, are not reviewing this class because of its 
complexity. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Abiraterone acetate (Zytiga) 
Capecitabine (Xeloda) 
Dasatinib (Sprycel) 
Erlotinib (Tarceva) 
--- Page 18 ---
18
Everolimus (Afinitor) 
Gefitinib (Iressa) 
Imatinib (Gleevec) 
Lapatinib (Tykerb) 
Pazopanib (Votrient) 
Sorafenib (Nexavar) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Nilotinib (Tasigna) 
Sunitinib malate (Sutent) 
Vandetanib (Caprelsa) 
Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) 
10-2;19. Ophthalmic Antibiotic-Steroid Combos (New Category) 
Dr. Givler offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Gentamicin /Prednisolone (Pred-G; Pred-G S.O.P.) 
Neomycin/Polymyxin B/Dexamethasone 
Sulfacetamide /Prednisolone Oint (Blephamide S.O.P.) 
Sulfacetamide /Prednisolone Sol (Generic; Blephamide) 
Tobramycin /Dexamethasone Oint (Tobradex) 
Tobramycin /Dexamethasone Susp (Tobradex) 
Tobramycin /Loteprednol (Zylet) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Neomycin/PolymyxinB /Hydrocortisone 
Neomycin/Bacitracin/PolymyxinB /Hydrocortisone 
Tobramycin/Dexamethasone Susp (Generic) 
Tobramycin /Dexamethasone ST (Tobradex ST) 
NOTE: Neomycin/Polymyxin B/ Prednisolone (Poly-Pred) is no longer 
available. 
10-2;20. Ophthalmic Antibiotics 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Mader. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Besifloxacin (Besivance) 
Ciprofloxacin Oint (Ciloxan) 
--- Page 19 ---
19
Ciprofloxacin Sol (Generic) 
Erythromycin 
Garamycin Drops 
Garamycin Oint 
Gatifloxacin 0.3% (Zymar) 
Gentamicin Drops 
Gentamicin Oint 
Moxifloxacin (Moxeza; Vigamox) 
Neomycin-Polymyxin-Bacitracin Oint 
Ofloxacin Sol (Generic) 
PolymyxinB/Trimethoprim (Generic; Polytrim) 
Sulfacetamide (Generic; Bleph-10) 
Tobramycin (Generic; Tobrex) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Azithromlycin (Azasite) 
Bacitracin 
Bacitracin Polymyxin B Oint 
Gatifloxacin 0.5% (Zymaxid) 
Levofloxacin (generic; Iquix; Quixin) 
Natamycin (Natacyn) 
Neomycin-Polymyxin-Gramacidin 
Ofloxacin Sol (Ocuflox) 
10-2;21.Ophthalmics For Allergic Conjunctivitis 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wilkinson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Cromolyn Sodium 
Loteprednol (Alrex) 
Olopatadine HCl (Pataday) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Alcaftadine (Lastacaft) 
Azelastine HC (Generic; Optivar) 
Bepotastine (Bepreve) 
Emedastine Difumarate (Emadine) 
Epinastine (Generic; Elestat) 
Lodoxamide Tromethamine (Alomide) 
Nedocromil Sodium (Alocril) 
Olopatadine HCl (Patanol) 
Pemirolast Potassium (Alamast) 
Note: Azelastine (Optivar) is now available as a generic. 
--- Page 20 ---
20
10-2;22.Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatories 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Dexamethasone (Generic; Maxidex) 
Diclofenac 
Fluorometholone 0.1% Oint (FML S.O.P.) 
Fluorometholone 0.1% Susp (Generic) 
Fluorometholone 0.25%Susp (FML Forte) 
Flurbiprofen 
Loteprednol Drops (Lotemax) 
Loteprednol Oint (Lotemax) 
Prednisolone Acetate 0.12% Sol (Generic; Pred Mild) 
Prednisolone Acetate 1% (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Bromfenac (generic; Bromday;Xibrom) 
Difluprednate (Durezol) 
Fluorometholone 0.1% Susp (FML) 
Fluorometholone Acetate 0.1% Sol (Flarex) 
Ketorolac (Generic; Acular) 
Ketorolac LS (Generic; Acular LS) 
Ketorolac (Acuvail) 
Nepafenac (Nevanac) 
Prednisolone Acetate 1% (Pred Forte) 
Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate 
Rimexolone (Vexol) 
10-2;23.Ophthalmics, Glaucoma Agents 
Dr. Wolfson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Murrill. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Betaxolol 
Betaxolol (Betoptic S) 
Brimonidine 0.15% (Alphagan P 0.15%- Brand Only) 
Brimonidine 0.2% (Generic) 
Brimonidine/Timolol (Combigan) 
Brinzolamide (Azopt) 
Carteolol 
Dipivefrin (Propine) 
Dorzolamide (Generic only) 
Dorzolamide/Timolol (Generic only) 
--- Page 21 ---
21
Latanoprost (Generic only) 
Levobunolol(Generic only ) 
Metipranolol (Generic; Optipranolol) 
Pilocarpine 
Timolol (Generic; Betimol) 
Timolol-LA (Istalol) 
Travoprost (Travatan Z) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Apraclonidine (Iopidine) 
Bimatroprost (Lumigan 2.5ml; 5ml; 7.5ml) 
Brimonidine 0.1% (Alphagan P 0.1%) 
Brimonidine 0.15% (Generic only) 
Dorzolamide (Trusopt) 
Dorzolamide/Timolol (Cosopt) 
Latanoprost (Xalatan) 
Levobunolol( Betagan) 
Timolol (Timoptic) 
Note: Latanoprost (Xalatan) is now available as a generic. Travatan is no 
longer available while Travatan Z remains available. 
10-2;24.Otic Anti-Infectives and Anesthetics (New Category) 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Murrill. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are 
Acetic Acid 
Acetic Acid/Aluminum 
Antipyrine/Benzocaine 
Benzocaine (Pinnacaine) 
Chloroxylenol/Pramoxine 
Chloroxylenol/Pramoxine (Pramotic) 
Pramoxine HC 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Acetic Acid/HC 
Acetic Acid/Antipyrine/Benzocaine/Polycosanol (Otic Care; PR Otic; Treagan) 
Antipyrine/Benzocaine/Zinc (Neotic; Otozin) 
Chloroxylenol/Benzocaine/Hydrocortisone (Myoxin; Trioxin) 
Chloroxylenol/Pramoxine/Zinc/Glycerine (Zinotic; Zinotic ES) 
Note: Chloroxylenol/pramoxine/hydrocortisone (Cortamox), 
antipyrine/benzxocaine/phenylephrine (Chlorphenylcaine), and acetic acid 
Borofair) have been discontinued. 
--- Page 22 ---
22
10-2;25.Otic Antibiotics 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Givler. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Ciprofloxacin/Dexamethasone (Ciprodex ) 
Neomycin/Polymyxin/HC (Generic; Cortisporin) 
Ofloxacin (Generic; Floxin) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Ciprofloxacin (Cetraxal Otic) 
Ciprofloxacin/Hydrocortisone (Cipro HC Otic) 
Neomycin/Colistin/Thonzonium/HC (Coly-mycin S) 
Neomycin/Colistin/Thonzonium/HC (Cortisporin-TC) 
10-2;26.Sedatives/Hypnotics 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Chloral Hydrate Syrup 
Temazepam (Generic) 
Triazolam (Generic) 
Zaleplon (Generic) 
Zolpidem 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Chloral Hydrate (Somnote) 
Doxepin (Silenor) 
Estazolam 
Eszopiclone (Lunesta) 
Flurazepam 
Quazepam (Doral) 
Ramelteon (Rozerem) 
Temazepam ( Restoril) 
Temazepam 7.5mg (Generic; Restoril) 
Temazepam 22.5 mg (Generic; Restoril) 
Triazolam (Halcion) 
Zalepon (Sonata – Brand Only) 
Zolpidem (Ambien) 
Zolpidem Sublingual (Edluar; Zolpimist) 
Zolpidem ER (Generic; Amben CR) 
--- Page 23 ---
23
10-2;27.Smoking Cessation (New Category) 
Dr. Patterson offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and one pharmaceutical 
manufacturer’s presentation, the motion passed with eight yeas and three nays by Drs. 
Miller, Wilkinson and Wolfson in a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Bupropion SR 
Nicotine Gum Buccal (Generic; Nicorette) 
Nicotine Lozenges (Nicorette Lozenges) 
Nicotine Transdermal (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Nicotine Inhaler (Nicotrol Inhaler) 
Nicotine Lozenges OTC Buccal 
Nicotine Lozenges OTC Mucous Membrane 
Nicotine Nasal Spray (Nicotrol Nasal Spray) 
Nicotine Transdermal (Nicoderm CQ) 
Varenicline DS PK (Chantix DS PK) 
Varenicline Tab (Chantix Tab) 
10-2;28.Steroids, Topical High 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Amcinonide Lot (Generic) 
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cr; Lot; Oint (Generic) 
Betamethasone Valerate Cr; Lot; Oint (Generic) 
Betamethasone Valerate Cr; Lot (Beta Val) 
Fluocinonide Cr; Emollient; Gel; Oint; Sol (Generic) 
Triamcinolone Acetonide Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Amcinonide Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Betamethasone Dipropionate Prop Glycol Cr; Lot; Oint (Generic; Diprolene/AF) 
Betamethasone Dipropionate Gel (Generic; Diprolene/AF) 
Desoximetasone Cr; Gel; Oint (Generic; Topicort; Topicort LP) 
Diflorasone Diacetate Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Fluocinonide Cr (Vanos) 
Halcinonide Cr; Oint (Halog) 
Triamcinolone Acetonide Aerosol (Kenalog Aerosol; Triderm) 
Triamcinolone Acetonide Lot (Generic) 
--- Page 24 ---
24
10-2;29.Steroids, Topical Low 
Dr. Figueroa offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Alclometasone Dipropionate (Aclovate) 
Desonide Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Hydrocortisone Cr; Lot; Oint (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Alclometasone Dipropionate Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Desonate Gel (Generic) 
Desonide Cr; Oint (Desonil Plus) 
Desonide Lotion (Generic; Desowen; Verdeso) 
Desonide Cr Kit (Desowen Cr Kit) 
Desonide Lotion Kit (Desowen Lot Kit) 
Desonide Oint Kit (Desowen Oint Kit) 
Fluocinolone Acetonide Shampoo (Capex 
Fluocinolone Acetonide (Derma-Smoothe-FS) 
Hydrocortisone (Ala Cort; Caldecort; Ala-scalp; Nuzon; Scalacort; Scalacort-DK 
Kit; Texacort; Pediaderm HC) 
Hydrocortisdone Acetate Urea (Generic) 
Hydrocortisone Aloe Gel (Generic) 
Hydrocortisone/Min Oil/Pet Oint (Generic) 
Triamcinolone ( Pediaderm TA) 
10-2;30.Steroids, Topical Medium 
Dr. Figueroa offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Mr. McKay. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Clocortolone Pivalate (Cloderm) 
Fluocinolone Acetonide Cr; Oint; Sol (Generic) 
Fluticasone Propionate Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Oint; Sol (Generic) 
Hydrocortisone Valerate Cr (Generic) 
Prednicarbate Cr (Dermatop) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Betamethasone Valerate (Luxiq) 
Flurandrenolide Tape (Cordran Tape) 
Fluticasone Propionate Cr; Lot (Cutivate ) 
Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cr (Generic; Lucoid Lipocream) 
--- Page 25 ---
25
Hydrocortisone Probutate (Pandel) 
Hydrocortisone Valerate Cr (Westcort) 
Hydrocortisone Valerate Oint (Generic) 
Mometasone Furoate Cr; Oint; Sol (Generic; Elocon) 
Mometasone Furoate (Momexin) 
Prednicarbate Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Prednicarbate Oint (Dermatop) 
10-2;31.Steroids, Topical Very High 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. After discussion and no pharmaceutical 
manufacturers’ requests to make presentations, the motion passed unanimously with a 
roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Clobetasol Propionate Cr; Emollient; Gel; Oint; Sol (Generic; Olux) 
Halobetasol Propionate Cr; Oint (Generic) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Clobetasol Propionte Cr (Temovate) 
Clobetasol Propionate Foam (Generic) 
Clobetasol Propionate (Clobex Lot; Shampoo; Spray) 
Clobetasol Propionate (Olux-E) 
Diflorasone Diacetate (Apexicon E) 
Halobetasol Propionate (Halonate; Halonate PAC Ultravate PAC ) 
10-2;32.Stimulants and Related Agents 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendations. The 
motion was seconded by Dr. Wolfson. 
Dr. Murrill offered a motion to amend the recommendations and include Strattera in the 
PDL list. Dr. Weather seconded the motion. 
Discussion and pharmaceutical manufacturers’ presentations followed. The Committee 
passed unanimously with a roll call vote to amend the original motion and add Strattera 
to the PDL list. Then the Committee voted to approve Provider Synergies’ 
recommendations plus Strattera in the PDL. The motion passed unanimously, with an 
abstention by Dr. Miller in a roll call vote. 
Committee Recommendations for the PDL are: 
Amphetamine Salt Combo (Generic; Adderall) 
Amphetamine Salt Combo ER (Generic; Adderall XR) 
Atomoxetine (Strattera) 
Dexmethylphenidate (Focalin) 
Dexmethylphenidate ER (Focalin XR) 
Dextroamphetamine (Generic) 
--- Page 26 ---
26
DextroamphetamineE R (Procentra) 
Guanfacine ER (Intuniv) 
Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse) 
Methylphenidate (Generic ; Metadate CD) 
Methylphenidate ER (Generic; Concerta; Metadate CD) 
Methylphenidate IR (Methylin Chewable & Solution) 
Methylphenidate SR (Ritalin SR) 
Methylphenidate Transdermal Patches (Daytrana) 
Committee Recommendations for the NPDL are: 
Amphetamine Salt Combo ER (Global; Teva) 
Armodafinil (Nuvigil) 
Clonidine ER (Kapay) 
Dextroamphetamine ER Cap 
Dexmethylphenidate (Generic) 
Dextroamphetamine ER (generic; Dexadrine) 
Dextroamphetamine Solution (Procentra) 
Methylphenidate Sol (Generic) 
Methamphetamine (Generic; Desoxyn) 
Methylphenidate ER (Generic Concerta; Ritalin LA) 
Modafinil (Provigil) 
II. 
NEW DRUGS REVIEW 
The new drug reviews or single drug reviews are on products that have come to the market 
since the last review of the class. The reviews at this meeting were on new products in classes 
reviewed at the April 27, 2011 meeting. Seven (7) new drugs in six (6) therapeutic classes were 
reviewed and recommendations were made. P&T Committee recommendations follow: 
Class Review 
Number 
10-1;3. Androgenic Agents 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendation to place 
the new drug Testosterone (Axiron) on the NPDL. The motion was seconded by Dr. 
Wolfson and passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
10-1;5. Angiotensin Modulators: ACE Inhibitors & Direct Renin Inhibitors 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendation to place 
the new drug Azilsartan Meoxomil (Edarbi) on the NPDL. The motion was seconded 
by Dr. Wolfson and passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
10-1;6. Antibiotics, Gastrointestinal 
Dr. Suleman offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendation to place 
the new drug Fidaxomicin (Dificid) on the NPDL. The motion was seconded by Mr. 
McKay and passed unanimously with a roll call vote. 
10-1;10.Anticoagulants 
Mr. McKay offered the motion to accept Provider Synergies’ recommendation to place 
--- Page 27 ---
27
the new drug Rivaroxaban (Xarelto) on the NPDL. Dr. Wolfson seconded the motion. 
After a presentation by the manufacturer representative and discussion, Dr. Wolfson 
offered an amendment to the motion and to approve Xarelto for the PDL. The drug had a 
rebate offer. The addition of Xarelto could result in a market share movement from the 
high cost injection of Lovenox (or generic equivalent enoxaparin) to oral Xarelto which 
could lower cost for Louisiana. Dr. Suleman seconded the motion. The Committee then 
voted unanimously in a roll call vote to pass the amendment to add Rivaroxaban 
(Xarelto) to the PDL. The Committee then voted unanimously against the original 
motion in a roll call vote which resulted in Xarelto being placed on the PDL and not 
as Provider Synergies recommended. 
10-1;26.Hepatitis C Agents 
Mr. McKay offered the motion, seconded by Dr. Suleman to accept Provider Synergies’ 
recommendation to place the new drug Boceprevir (Victrelis) on the PDL. After 
presentations by manufacturer representatives and discussion, the motion was defeated 
with two yeas and nine nays. So Victrelis was recommended for the NPDL. 
Provider Synergies recommended Telaprevir (Incivek) for the NPDL. The Committee in 
a roll call vote of 8 yeas and 3 nays approved the Provider Synergies recommendation to 
place Incivek on the NPDL. 
10-1;27.Hypoglycemics, Incretin Mimetics/Enhancers 
Mr. McKay offered the motion, seconded by Dr. Wolfson, to accept Provider Synergies’ 
recommendation to place the new drug Linagliptin (Tradjenta) on the PDL. The motion 
passed unanimously in a roll call vote. 
Other Business: 
A. 
Dr. Miller. Dr. Miller raised several issues he thought the Committee should address, such as 
restricting the prescribing of certain agents to credentialed providers or in certain circumstances 
to include consultation with approval of credentialed providers, implementing tiered processes or 
an algorithm approach to certain medications, monitoring out of state and mail order pharmacies, 
and not paying for agents that become “unsafe”. (Entire presentation is on meeting transcript.) 
B. 
Dr. Hebert. Dr. Hebert told the Committee he wanted Dr. Miller to present his 
recommendations and suggestions formally to the Committee. He complimented Dr. Miller and 
expressed a desire to hear the members’ comments on the recommendations. He then appointed a 
group comprised of himself, Mr. McKay, Committee ViceChair; Ms. Terrebonne, Pharmacy 
Program Manager; and Ms. Rebecca DeLaSalle, DHH Attorney; with Dr. Rodney Wise, DHH 
Medical Director, as chair to review Dr. Miller’s suggestions and see what is feasible and the best 
approach. Dr. Hebert said the Committee and Department had to take realistic approaches. 
C. 
Ms. Rebecca DeLaSalle. Ms. DeLaSalle, DHH attorney, addressed the Committee. She stated 
DHH staff reviewed the statute that created the P&T Committee. She said the statute states, “It 
shall be responsible for developing and maintaining a pharmacopeia established in conjunction 
with a prior approval process.” She said perhaps the Committee may need some education on 
what DHH processes are that are already established, because the Committee’s charge is to create 
the pharmacopeia “in conjunction with.” 
--- Page 28 ---
28
She referred the Committee to number four of the Bylaws, and said that there is an 
itemization….one, two, three and four. She said if you look at it, its looks like it just stands 
alone, but it doesn’t. It comes in a part of the statute and it is actually sandwiched between 
language that’s all relative to the pharmacopeia. So it says, “The Committee may recommend 
additions and deletions relative to the pharmacopeia and the pharmacopeia may change in 
accordance with those recommendations.” 
According to Ms. DeLaSalle, this is the bulk of what the Committee does. The statute continues 
with, “The Committee shall also advise the Secretary of the Department on policy 
recommendations related to the prudent administration of the Medicaid program. “The Secretary 
shall assure that all actions of the Committee comply with applicable state and federal laws, rules 
and regulations prior to the implementation or modification of the pharmacopeia. According to 
Ms. DeLaSalle, some of the recommendations she heard at the meeting, in her opinion, fall 
outside of this purvue. She stated, however, if the Committee votes and wants to make a 
recommendation to the Secretary, she didn’t see anything that prevents that action. 
Next Steps: 
A. 
Therapeutic Classes proposed to be reviewed at Next Meeting. Therapeutic classes proposed 
for review at the next meeting are: 
Analgesics, Narcotics Long 
Cephalosporins and Related Antibiotics 
Analgesics, Narcotics Short 
Erythropoiesis Stimulating Proteins 
Androgenic Agents 
Fluorquinolones, Oral 
Angiotensin Modulator Combinations 
Growth Hormone 
Angiotensin Modulators 
Hepatitis C Agents 
Antibiotics, GI 
Hypoglycemics, Incretin Mimetics/Enhancers 
Antibiotics, Inhaled 
Hypoglycemics, Insulin 
Antibiotics, Topical 
Hypoglycemics, Meglitinides 
Antibiotics Vaginal 
Hypoglycemics, TZD 
Anticoagulants 
Lipotropics, Other 
Antiemetics/Antivertigo Agents 
Lipotropics, Statins 
Antifungals, Oral 
Macrolides/Ketolides 
Antifungals, Topical 
Multiple Sclerosis Agents 
Antimigraine Agents 
Opiate Dependence 
Antiparasitics, Topical 
PAH Agents, Oral and Inhaled 
Antivirals, Topical 
Pancreatic Enzymes 
Beta-Blockers 
Phosphate Binders 
Bladder Relaxant Preparations 
Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors 
Bone Resorption Suppression &Related Agents Proton Pump Inhibitors 
BPH Treatments 
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants 
Calcium Channel Blockers 
Tetracyclines, Oral 
Ulcerative Colitis Agents 
Note: Therapeutic Classes scheduled for review are posted on the following websites: 
DHH Medicaid - (www.lamedicaid.com) and Provider Synergies -
(http://www.providersynergies.com/services/medicaid/default.asp?content=Louisiana) 
--- Page 29 ---
29
Next Meeting Date: 
The next Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 2, 2012. 
Public Comment: 
There were no additional public comments.\ 
Adjournment: 
The meeting adjourned at 3:00 p.m. 
The meeting transcript is available for review at DHH, Bureau of Health Services Financing, 
Pharmacy Benefits Section, upon request.