STATE: Louisiana
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://ldh.la.gov/assets/HealthyLa/Pharmacy/NaloxoneStandingOrder.pdf
SEED_URL: https://ldh.la.gov/Pharmacy
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Standing Order
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
STATE OF LOUISIANA 
Standing Order for the Distribution or Dispensing of Naloxone or Other Opioid Antagonists 
Background and Purpose 
Naloxone, and other opioid antagonists, is a prescription medication indicated for the reversal of 
respiratory depression or unresponsiveness due to opioid overdose. Given the current public health 
emergency relative to the misuse and abuse of opioid derivatives, it has been determind that widespread 
availability of opioid antagonists to addicts and their caregivers, as well as first responders in the 
community, would serve the public interest. For as long as naloxone, and other such opioid antagonists, 
remain classified as prescription drugs by the federal Food and Drug Administration, pharmacists must 
secure a prescription or order from a prescriber with the legal authority to prescribe said drug products 
in order to dispense or distribute the drug product. Thus, the Lousiana Legislature has adopted a number 
of laws designed to facilitate the distribution and dispensing of naloxone, or other opioid antagonists, 
beyond the person who would need the medication on an emergent basis to manage an opioid-related 
drug overdose; specifically first responders, caregivers and family/ friends of potential patients. 
According to La R.S. 40:978.2, a licensed medical practitioner may, directly or by standing order (emphasis 
added), prescribe or dispense the drug naloxone or another opioid antagonist without having examined 
the individual to whom it may be administered if two conditions are met. First, the licensed medical 
practitioner must provide the individual receiving and administering the naloxone or other opioid 
antagonist all training requirements for the safe and proper administration of naloxone or another opioid 
antagonist to individuals who are undergoing, or who are belived to be undergoing, an opioid-related drug 
overdose. According to the statute, the training, at a minimum, shall address (1) techniques on how to 
recognize signs of opioid-related overdose, (2) standards and procedures for the storage and 
administration of naloxone or another opioid antagonist and (3) emergency follow-up procedures 
including the requirement to summon emergency services either immediately before or immediately after 
administering the naloxone or other opioid antagonist to an individual apparently experiencing an opioid-
related overdose. Second, the naloxone, or other opioid antagonist, must be prescribed or dispensed in 
such a manner that it shall be administered through a device approved for this purpose by the United 
States Food and Drug Administration. 
Authorization 
The standing order is issued in compliance with, and under the authority of, La. R.S. 40:978.2 and shall be 
deemed as a medical order for naloxone, or other opioid antagonist, as long as the conditions of the 
statute are met. This standing order shall be valid for one year from the date of issue below. 
Training and Instructional Materials 
In accordance with the Louisiana Board of Pharmacy’s regulations (LAC 46:LIII.2541), the pharmacist 
distributing the naloxone, or other opioid antagonist, must verify the recipient’s knowledge and 
understanding of the proper use of the drug product. At a minimum, this must include (1) techniques on 
how to recognize signs of an opioid-related drug overdose, (2) standards and procedures for the storage 
Docusign Envelope ID: FD480ADA-D35C-49A1-9556-E4AEAB8669DD
--- Page 2 ---
and administration of the drug product, and (3) emergency follow-up procedures, including the 
requirement to summon emergency service either immediately before or immediately after administering 
the drug product to the individual experiencing the overdose. 
Dosage and Refills 
Further, refills may be obtained as needed pursuant to this order. Do not administer naloxone for usage 
on an individual with known hypersensitivity to naloxone, or to any other ingredient that may be 
referenced in the package insert of naloxone, or any other opioid antagonist prescribed and/or dispensed. 
Reimbursement 
For reimbursement purposes, it may be necessary to have the medication dispensed in the name of the 
insured. This standing order authorizes the pharmacist to prepare a prescription for naloxone or other 
opioid antagonist, with refills authorized, in the name of the insured, and then dispense that product. This 
standing order, in and of itself, should not be relied upon as a guaranty or reimbursement from any payer 
source. 
Recordkeeping 
In order to comply with the recordkeeping requirements found in the Board of Pharmacy rules and 
regulations, the pharmacist shall attach a copy of this standing order to the invoice, or other record of 
sale of distribution. Further, the pharmacist shall store these transaction documents with the other 
distribution records in the pharmacy. 
I hereby declare this standing order as a statewide medical order for the dispensing of naloxone, or 
opioid antagonist product, as long as the requirements of La. R.S. 40:978.2 and LAC 46:LIII.2541 are 
satisfied. Any pharmacy licensed by the Louisiana Board of Pharmacy may rely on this standing order 
for the distribution or dispensing of naloxone or other opioid antagonist to any Louisiana resident. 
__________________________________ 
Dr. Paula V. de la Cruz (NPI: 1114088697) 
Date of Issue: _01/01/2026____ 
Docusign Envelope ID: FD480ADA-D35C-49A1-9556-E4AEAB8669DD