STATE: Louisiana
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://ldh.la.gov/page/heat
SEED_URL: https://ldh.la.gov/Pharmacy
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Heat Dashboard
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html;charset=UTF-8
TITLE: Heat-Related Illness: Data Dashboard and Guidance | Louisiana Department of Health

Heat-Related Illness: Data Dashboard and Guidance | Louisiana Department of Health 
An official website of the State of Louisiana. 
Here’s how you know 
Language 
Accessibility 
Official Louisiana State Websites use .la.gov A .la.gov website belongs to an official 
government organization in Louisiana. 
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely 
connected to the official .gov website. 
Menu 
For Businesses 
For Businesses 
Bacteriological Sample Collection 
Building and Premises Program 
Cannabis Program 
Food & Drug Program 
Commercial Seafood Program 
Lead Service Line Inventory (LSLI) 
Milk & Dairy Control Program 
Onsite Wastewater Program 
Retail Food Program 
For Providers 
For Providers 
Adult Immunization Provider Toolkit 
Ambulance Standards 
Care Coordination 
Coordinated System of Care (CSoC) 
Direct Service Workers 
EarlySteps Provider Page 
Healthcare-Associated Infections and Antibiotic Resistance (HAI/AR) 
Immunization Quality Improvement for Providers (IQIP) 
Louisiana Hospital Inpatient Discharge Database 
Louisiana WIC Vendors 
Mental Health Rehabilitation 
Medicaid Providers 
For Providers 
Claims and Billing 
Dental Providers 
Electronic Visit Verification 
Informational Bulletins 
Legal Compliance Monitoring 
Long-Term Care Providers 
Managed Care Entity Resources 
Dental Benefit Program Manager Resources 
Managed Care Organization Resources 
Rate Certification Letters 
Medical Transportation Provider Resources 
Pharmacy 
Rate and Audit 
EIDR Medicaid Claims Requests 
Useful MCO Information for Providers 
Provider to Provider Consultation Line (PPCL) 
Suicide Assessment, Intervention, Treatment & Management Resources 
SUID Resources 
Veterinary Information 
Vital Records: LEERS 
Yellow Fever Vaccination Center Certification 
For Employees 
Health Info & Services 
Health Info & Services 
Aging Louisianans 
Health Info & Services Aging Louisianans 
Adult Day Health Care (ADHC) Waiver 
Adult Protective Services (APS) 
Civil Money Penalty (CMP) Reinvestment Program 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) 
Community Choices Waiver (CCW) 
Facility-Based Programs / Nursing Facilities 
Home & Community-Based Services (HCBS) 
Long Term-Personal Care Services (LT-PCS) 
My Place Louisiana (MPL) 
Permanent Supportive Housing (PSH) 
Program for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) 
State Personal Assistance Services Program (SPAS) 
Traumatic Brain & Spinal Cord Injury (THSCI) 
Behavioral Health 
Health Info & Services Behavioral Health 
Behavioral Health Managed Care 
Coordinated System of Care (CSoC) 
Mental Health Information & Services 
Health Info & Services Mental Health Information & Services 
Acute Units & Behavioral Health Clinics 
Mental Health Rehabilitation 
Early Serious Mental Illness/First Episode Psychosis Treatment 
Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities 
Substance Use & Addictive Disorders 
Health Info & Services Substance Use & Addictive Disorders 
Alcohol Use 
Inhalant Abuse Prevention 
Opioids 
Problem Gambling 
Tobacco Use 
Suicide Prevention 
Health Info & Services Suicide Prevention 
Louisiana Crisis Response System and 988 Lifeline 
Louisiana Spirit Crisis Counseling Program 
Children & Families 
Health Info & Services Children & Families 
Adolescent School Health Program 
Health Info & Services Adolescent School Health Program 
School-Based Health Centers 
Adoption 
Birth Defects 
Children’s Special Healthcare Services (CSHS) 
Choose Safe Places for Early Child Care and Education (CSPECE) 
Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Program (EHDI) 
Family Support & Coaching 
Genetic Diseases Program 
Newborn Screening 
Pregnancy 
Reproductive Health Program 
Sickle Cell Disease 
WIC 
Community Health & Wellness 
Health Info & Services Community Health & Wellness 
Cancer 
Health Info & Services Cancer 
Breast 
Cervical 
Colorectal 
Kidney/Renal Pelvis 
Lung 
Ovarian 
Prostate 
Skin 
Cannabis 
Chronic Disease 
Community Healthways Program 
Engineering Services 
Environmental 
Health Info & Services Environmental 
Environmental Public Health Tracking Program 
Heat-Related Illness 
Lead Poisoning Prevention 
Louisiana's Occupational Heat-Related Illness and Injury Program 
Molluscan Shellfish Program 
Beach Monitoring Program 
Food Safety 
Local Governing Entities (LGE) 
Louisiana Hospice and Palliative Care 
Oral Health 
Parish Health Units (PHU) 
Disabilities 
Health Info & Services Disabilities 
Children's Choice (CC) Waiver 
Down Syndrome 
EarlySteps 
Freedom of Choice Providers 
Louisiana Commission for the Deaf (LCD) 
My Place Louisiana 
New Opportunities Waiver (NOW) 
Residential Options Waiver (ROW) 
Support Coordination 
Supports Waiver (SW) 
Infectious Diseases 
Health Info & Services Infectious Diseases 
Foodborne & Waterborne Diseases 
Fungal Diseases 
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) 
Influenza (Flu) 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology 
Immunizations 
Measles 
Sexually Transmitted Infections 
Tuberculosis 
Whooping Cough 
West Nile Virus 
Zoonotic Diseases 
Emergency Preparedness & Response 
Health Info & Services Emergency Preparedness & Response 
Emergency Preparedness - ESF6 & ESF8 
Emergency Preparedness - Health Standards Section 
Emergency Preparedness for Citizens with Disabilities 
Emergency Response Assistance Program 
Drinking Water Emergency Response 
Medicaid 
Medicaid 
Healthy Louisiana 
Already Covered 
Medicaid Already Covered 
Update My Info 
Find A Provider 
Choose A Health Plan 
Renew 
Member Rights 
Medicaid Member Rights 
How to Appeal 
Mobile Access to Health Information 
Reimbursement 
Tax Forms 
Get Covered 
Close Your Medicaid 
Get More Information 
Medicaid Get More Information 
Medicaid Services 
Full Coverage Physical and Behavioral Health Benefits 
Medicaid Full Coverage Physical and Behavioral Health Benefits 
LaCHIP 
LaCHIP Affordable Plan 
Family Opportunity Act 
Act 421 Children's Medicaid Option 
LaMOMS 
Medicaid Expansion 
Medicaid Benefits for Youth with Developmental Disabilities 
Medicaid Purchase Plan 
Family Planning Services Coverage 
Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Coverage 
Medicare Premium Payment 
Long-Term Services 
Medicaid Long-Term Services 
Self Direction 
Health Insurance Premium Payment 
Home Medical Equipment and Services for Children with Disabilities 
Medical Transportation 
Aging Out of Children's Health Coverage (EPSDT) 
Plan Information 
For Medicaid Partners 
Medicaid For Medicaid Partners 
Available for Public Comment 
Medicaid Available for Public Comment 
Dental Benefit Plan Manager Policies 
Managed Care Contracts 
Managed Care Policies and Procedures 
Managed Care Policies and Procedures - Pharmacy 
Medicaid Demonstrations & Waivers 
Medicaid Notices 
Medicaid Provider Manuals 
State Plan Amendments 
Medicaid Policy 
Medicaid Rulemaking 
State Plan 
State Plan Amendments 
Quality Initiatives 
Medicaid Quality Initiatives 
Performance Improvement Projects 
Public University Partnership Program (PUPP) 
Louisiana Health Insurance Survey (LHIS) Dashboard - Adults 
Louisiana Health Insurance Survey (LHIS) Dashboard - Children 
Louisiana Health Insurance Survey (LHIS) Dashboard - Uninsured 
Medicaid and CHIP Scorecard 
Birth Outcomes 
Medicaid Eligibility Information 
Application Center Resource Library 
Request an Eligibility Worker at Your Business 
Request Medicaid Data 
Health Plan Judicial Liaisons 
Justice Involved Pre-Release Program 
Reentry 1115 Demonstration Waiver 
SNAP 
SNAP 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) 
SNAP Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) 
Able-Bodied Adult Without Dependents (ABAWD) 
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (DSNAP) 
Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) 
Electronic Healthy Incentives Project (eHIP) 
Family Independence Temporary Assistance Program (FITAP) 
Kinship Care Subsidy Program (KCSP) 
SUN Bucks 
SNAP Community Partners 
SNAP Eligibility & Application 
SNAP Quality Control 
SNAP Success Center 
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) 
Vital Records 
Vital Records 
Birth & Death Certificates 
Marriage Certificates & Licenses 
Paternity Documentation 
Adoption Documentation 
Amend a Vital Record 
Offices & Administration 
Offices & Administration 
About LDH 
Offices & Administration About LDH 
Locations 
News 
Events 
Careers 
Divisions 
Offices & Administration Divisions 
Bureau of Health Services Financing (Medicaid) 
Office of Aging and Adult Services 
Offices & Administration Office of Aging and Adult Services 
Facility-Based Programs 
Critical Incident Reporting 
Home & Community-Based Services 
Permanent Supportive Housing (PSH) 
Office of Behavioral Health 
Offices & Administration Office of Behavioral Health 
Addictive Disorders 
Coordinated System of Care 
Louisiana Crisis Counseling Program 
Mental Health 
Office for Citizens with Developmental Disabilities 
Offices & Administration Office for Citizens with Developmental Disabilities 
For Individuals & Families 
For Providers 
Locate Services 
Services & Programs 
Early Steps 
Critical Incident Reporting 
Resources 
Office of Economic Stability 
Office of Public Health 
Offices & Administration Office of Public Health 
Bureau of Chronic Disease Prevention and Healthcare Access 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Chronic Disease Prevention and Healthcare Access 
Asthma 
Diabetes 
Heart Disease 
Obesity 
Oral health 
Bureau of Community Preparedness 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Community Preparedness 
Health Alert Network Messages 
Pandemic Flu 
Community Preparedness Training Materials 
Bureau of Emergency Medical Services 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Emergency Medical Services 
Ambulance Standards 
EMS Certifications 
EMS Commission 
EMS Credentialing 
EMS Education 
EMS Exams 
EMS Jobs 
EMS Task Force 
Jump Start Your Heart Act 
Bureau of Engineering Services 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Engineering Services 
Safe Drinking Water Program 
Operator Certification Program 
Drinking Water Revolving Loan Fund 
Bureau of Family Health 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Family Health 
Louisiana Birth Defects Monitoring Network (LBDMN) 
Louisiana Commission for the Deaf (LCD) 
Louisiana Perinatal Quality Collaborative (LaPQC) 
Louisiana Pregnancy-Associated Mortality Review (PAMR) 
Louisiana Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (Louisiana PRAMS) 
Partners for Family Health 
Bureau of Health Informatics 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Health Informatics 
BRFSS 
Data Requests 
Health Report Card 
Hospital Inpatient Discharge Database 
Opioid Surveillance System 
Bureau of Infectious Diseases 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Infectious Diseases 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology 
Immunizations 
STD/HIV/Hepatitis 
Environmental Epidemiology & Toxicology 
Tuberculosis Control 
Veterinary 
Bureau of Laboratory Services 
Bureau of Nutrition Services 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Nutrition Services 
WIC 
Breastfeeding Program 
Vendor Operations 
Complaints & Fraud 
Bureau of Planning and Performance 
Bureau of Regional and Clinical Operations 
Bureau of Sanitarian Services 
Offices & Administration Bureau of Sanitarian Services 
Food Safety Program 
Retail Food Program 
Food and Drug Program 
Commercial Seafood Program 
Milk and Dairy Unit 
Center for Vital Records & Health Statistics 
Offices & Administration Center for Vital Records & Health Statistics 
How to Order Birth Records 
Offices & Administration How to Order Birth Records 
Adoption Information 
How to Order Death Records 
Marriage Information 
Paternity 
Amend a Birth Record 
Amend a Death Record 
Adoption 
Office on Women's Health and Community Health 
Institutional Review Board 
Office of the Secretary 
Offices & Administration Office of the Secretary 
Deputy Secretary 
Undersecretary 
Governmental Relations & Community Partnerships 
Office of Management & Finance 
Bureau of Media & Communications 
Bureau of Legal Services 
Bureau of Community Partnerships 
Health Standards Section 
Office of the Surgeon General 
Resources 
Resources 
988 Dashboard 
Document Search 
Drinking Water Watch Database 
Harm Reduction Distribution Hub 
Louisiana Perinatal Quality Collaborative 
Heat Dashboard 
Opioid Surveillance 
Maternal and Child Health Data Indicators 
Partners for Family Health 
Respiratory Virus Dashboard 
State Health Data Portal 
Well-Ahead Louisiana 
Women's Health Resource Map 
Public Records Request 
LDH Policies & Forms 
Menu 
Resources 
988 Dashboard 
Document Search 
Drinking Water Watch Database 
Harm Reduction Distribution Hub 
Louisiana Perinatal Quality Collaborative 
Heat Dashboard 
Opioid Surveillance 
Maternal and Child Health Data Indicators 
Partners for Family Health 
Respiratory Virus Dashboard 
State Health Data Portal 
Well-Ahead Louisiana 
Women's Health Resource Map 
Public Records Request 
LDH Policies & Forms 
Menu 
Resources 
Heat-Related Illness: Data Dashboard and Guidance 
Heat-Related Illness: Data Dashboard and Guidance 
Heat can be dangerous. 
When it is hot outside, the body gets rid of excess heat by sweating and increasing blood flow to the skin. Humidity makes it harder for the body to cool itself. Heat-related illness (HRI or hyperthermia) happens when the body is unable to maintain a normal body temperature. 
View Heat-Related Illness Data Dashboard 
Frequently Asked Questions 
Who is at risk of heat-related illness? 
Older adults don't sweat as much as younger adults, and they are more likely to have chronic health conditions. 
People with chronic health conditions such as heart or kidney disease, respiratory conditions, high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity. 
Outdoor workers and some indoor workers who work in a hot, unairconditioned environment.  Visit the Louisiana Occupational Heat-Related Illness Prevention Program for more information about workers and heat. 
People who take certain medications (which can affect how the body controls its temperature, holds the correct amount of water, or makes the skin more sensitive to the sun). Download LDH’s fact sheet or visit the CDC's Heat and Medications - Guidance for Clinicians for more information. 
Athletes and people who exercise outside. 
Unhoused individuals and people living in buildings with no or limited air conditioning. 
People who are socially isolated or have limited mobility . 
Infants and young children  are sensitive to the effects of high temperatures and rely on others to control their environments. 
Pregnant women  are under more bodily stress and are more likely to become dehydrated. 
People who use substances like drugs and alcohol . Some substances increase the effects of heat stress on the body, while others can mask the symptoms of heat illness. 
How can I protect myself and others from heat-related illness? 
Stay informed: Keep an eye on weather forecasts and heat advisories so you know when extreme heat is coming and how long it will last. Sign up for emergency alerts. 
Stay in air-conditioned spaces. If your home is not air-conditioned, visit a cooling center, shopping mall,  or library. To find a cooling center in Orleans Parish call 311 or go to Nola Ready Website . For other areas of the state, news outlets are the best sources. 
Contact the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) if you need help with home energy expenses such as bills, cooling equipment, or repairs. 
Keep your home cool. Wait until nighttime to use appliances that get hot, like the oven, clothes dryer, and iron. Wash hot-water loads of laundry at night. Close your blinds or curtains during the day. Use window reflectors specifically designed to reflect heat back outside. 
Stay hydrated. Drink water throughout the day. Don’t wait until you’re thirsty. Thirst is not a good indicator of hydration. Avoid alcohol, caffeine, and sugary drinks. Water works best to prevent dehydration, but after heavy exercise or periods of heavy sweating, you may need to replace electrolytes and fluid. Many sports drinks effectively restore body fluids, electrolytes, and salt balance. Symptoms of electrolyte imbalance are muscle twitching and cramps, increased thirst, salt craving, and irritability. 
If you are outside , wear sunscreen, a wide-brimmed hat, and sunglasses. Wear loose-fitting, lightweight, and light-colored clothing to reflect heat and sunlight. 
Avoid outside activities during the hottest part of the day (usually 10 AM to 4 PM). 
Never leave children or pets alone in vehicles. Look before you lock! 
Check your meds. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist to see if any of your medications affect your body’s ability to regulate temperature. Visit the CDC's Heat and Medications for a summary of how heat can affect medications and health. 
Look after each other. Check in on family, friends, and neighbors, especially the elderly, people who don't have air conditioning and who spend much of their time alone. 
Take extra precautions if you are working outside or in an unairconditioned space. Remember Water, Rest, and Shade. Drink 2 to 4 glasses (16–32 ounces) of water each hour and take frequent breaks in a shady or air-conditioned space. 
How can alcohol and drug use contribute to heat-related illness? 
Substance use can significantly contribute to an increased risk of heat-related illness. Alcohol and drugs can impact your body’s ability to regulate and respond to heat, increasing the risks that already exist from heat or substance use. In 2023, drugs and/or alcohol were involved in 31% of all heat-related deaths in Louisiana. 
Stimulants like methamphetamines, MDMA (molly/ecstasy), and cocaine affect the body’s ability to regulate temperature, decrease feelings of thirst and hunger, and increase heart rate. 
Fentanyl, heroin, benzodiazepines, and alcohol can mask heat stroke symptoms and reduce awareness, making it more difficult to recognize signs of overheating. 
People using substances may also struggle with mental health issues and/or accessing basic needs, such as lack of stable housing or access to cooled environments, putting them at a higher risk of heat illness and death due to increased heat exposure. 
Prescription and Other Medications 
Some medications can increase the risk of heat-related illnesses, including heat exhaustion and heat stroke, by making it harder for the body to cool itself, sweat, and pump blood to the skin. These can include diuretics, antidepressants, heart and blood medications, and others.  
Learn more: CDC| Heat and Medications – Guidance for Clinicians 
Signs of Heat-Related Illness and What to Do 
Heat Cramps 
What to look for 
Heavy sweating during work or exercise 
Muscle pain or spasms 
What to do 
Stop physical activity and move to a cool place 
Drink water or a sports drink 
Wait for cramps to go away before you do any more physical activity 
Get medical help right away 
If cramps last longer than 1 hour 
Heat Exhaustion 
What to look for 
Heavy sweating 
Cold, pale, and clammy skin 
Fast, weak pulse 
Nausea and vomiting 
Muscle cramps 
Tiredness or weakness 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Fainting 
What to do 
Move to a cool place 
Loosen clothes 
Put cool, wet clothes on your body or take a cool bath 
Sip water 
Get medical help right away 
If you are throwing up 
If your symptoms get worse 
If your symptoms last longer than an hour 
Heat Stroke 
What to look for 
High body temperature (103°F or higher) 
Skin can be hot and red, or dry and damp 
Fast, strong pulse 
Dizziness 
Nausea or vomiting 
Confusion 
Fainting or loss of consciousness 
Convulsions 
What do do 
Call 911 immediately. Heat stroke is a life-threatening emergency 
Move the person to a cooler place 
Loosen clothes 
Cool the person quickly by wetting or applying ice to the neck, armpits, and groin areas 
Fact Sheets and Guidance 
Full Heat Toolkit 
Useful Links 
Guidance for Identifying and Certifying Disaster-Related Deaths, Sep 2025 
Louisiana Occupational Heat-Related Illness Prevention Program for more information about workers and heat 
HEAT.gov - National Integrated Heat Health Information System 
OSHA Heat Illness Prevention 
OSHA Heat Safety Tool 
National Weather Service 
Southern Climate Impacts Planning Program 
Global Heat Health Information Network 
Heat-Related Illness ICD Diagnostic Codes 
Publications & Reports 
Heat-Related Mortality in Louisiana, 2023, v3 
Guidance for Identifying and Certifying Disaster-Related Deaths, September 2025 
Guidance for Identifying and Certifying Death from Environmental Heat Exposure, May 2025 
Heat-Related Emergency Department Visits in Louisiana: Review of Syndromic Surveillance Data for April through October, 2023 
Heat-Related Illness in New Orleans: Review of Emergency Department Data from 2010-2020. LDH OPH Occupational Heat-Related Illness Prevention Program, 2023 
Heat-Related Illness in Louisiana: Review of Emergency Department and Hospitalization Data from 2010-2020. LDH OPH Occupational Heat-Related Illness Prevention Program, March 2024 
Louisiana Health Alert Message: Extreme Heat Poses Serious Risk of Heat Exhaustion and Heat Stroke, August 2023 
Heat-Related Illnesses 
Data Source 
Data are from participating Louisiana (LA) Emergency Departments. Approximately 90% of Louisiana EDs provide data. Data are transmitted and processed via the National Syndromic Surveillance Program’s BioSense Platform. BioSense is a cloud-based platform that hosts the Electronic Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community-based Epidemics, or ESSENCE, a web-based syndromic surveillance analysis system. Note that counts might change over time due to several factors: new updates and messages are continuously received, reporting facilities are onboarded and offboarded, and case query definitions are modified and refined. 
Case Definition 
Each case represents an ED visit for heat-related illness. An individual may have more than one ED visit. Records are selected using a built-in Essence query that searches the Chief Complaint (i.e., the patient’s stated reason for visit), Admit Reason (i.e., the provider’s noted reason for admission), and Discharge Diagnosis fields for text and ICD codes associated with heat exhaustion, heat exposure, heat cramps, heat stroke or hyperthermia. The Clinical Impression and Triage fields were added to the syndrome query to increase the number of cases captured. 
Limitations 
While syndromic surveillance is a valuable near real-time data source for assessing the impacts of HRI in Louisiana, it is accompanied by some limitations that should be considered when interpreting the data. Not all ED visits in the state are included in the data analyzed (approximately 90% of EDs report data). Also, the amount of ED data received by the syndromic system may change over time due to the onboarding and off-boarding of facilities, changes in electronic health reporting systems and data outages for various reasons. This limitation should be considered when analyzing trends over time. Patients seen outside of EDs, such as at urgent care centers or by emergency medical services without transport to a hospital, are not captured. Records in ESSENCE are not verified using clinical standards to definitively classify them and so do not represent clinically confirmed diagnoses. Some cases are identified from pre-visit information. These fields may be inaccurately or incompletely reported which could result in misclassification of HRI ED visits. An example of this issue lies within the Chief Complaint category, as it relies on self-reporting and may provide ambiguous information. Data are retrieved and reported based on location of treatment facility, except for the number of HRI ED visits by parish, which is reported based on the patient’s parish of residence. While the facility location is a useful proxy for the patient’s location, it represents the location where the patient sought care which may differ from the location where the patient became ill. 
Daily Temperature Estimates 
Data Source 
Daily temperature estimates are created using nClimGrid-Daily. nClimGrid-Daily is a gridded (0.0417° or 5-km) dataset offering daily minimum, maximum, and average temperatures from 1951 to the near present. Data are maintained by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Centers for Environment Information (NCEI). For a detailed description of the dataset, please view “ Daily High-Resolution Temperature and Precipitation Fields for the Contiguous United States from 1951 to Present ” by Durre et al., (2022). 
Data Definition 
Daily statewide and regional temperature estimates are created by averaging all grids within the state and regional boundaries based on Census TIGER/Line Shapefiles. The grids are created by an estimation algorithm using National Weather Service Cooperative Observer Program stations and Automated Surface Observing Systems stations. Both are National Weather Service and NCEI approved. The data are extensively quality-controlled. 
Daily values represent prevailing conditions during the 24 hours ending during the morning on the observation day. For example, the estimates for April 1st represent conditions from the morning of March 31st ending during the morning of April 1st. The data generally have a latency of 1-3 days and preliminary estimates may be subject to change.   
Credit 
Code development and testing for temperature data were done by the Southern Climate Impacts Planning Program . 
Surgeon General 
Evelyn Griffin, MD 
Secretary 
Bruce D. Greenstein 
Louisiana Department of Health 
628 N. 4th Street 
Baton Rouge, LA 70802 
225-342-9500 
Quick Links 
File a Complaint/Report Abuse 
Report Medicaid Fraud 
Pregnancy Options 
Public Notices & Hearings 
Rulemaking 
Privacy Policy 
Non-Discrimination Disclaimer 
Let’s stay in touch. 
contact us 
Powered by Cicero Government