STATE: North Dakota\nURL: https://ndmedicaid.acentra.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/17/2025/06/ND_DUR_Board_Meeting_Minutes_03052025.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ndmedicaid.acentra.com/dur-board/\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nMeeting Minutes 
North Dakota Medicaid Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
Meeting Date: March 5th, 2025 
Time and Location: 1:00 pm CST in Bismarck, North Dakota 
Call to Order: 
A regular quarterly meeting of the North Dakota Medicaid Drug Use Review (DUR) Board 
meeting was convened at 1:06 pm CST with K. Martian presiding as Presiding Officer. DUR 
Board Coordinator, J. McKee recording minutes.  
Roll Call:   
Board Members Voting: 
Present: Stephanie Antony, Gabriela Balf, Amanda Dahl, Kurt Datz, Andrea Honeyman, Laura 
Kroetsch, Kevin Martian, Kristen Peterson, Amy Werremeyer, Jessica Ziegler, Matthew Zimny 
Absent: Tanya Schmidt  
Quorum Present: Yes 
Board Members Non-Voting: Kathleen Traylor 
Absent:
   
Medicaid Pharmacy Department:  
Present: Jeff Hostetter, Brendan Joyce, Alexi Murphy, Katie Steig  
Absent: LeNeika Roehrich 
Approval of Meeting Minutes: 
Motion: Moved by K. Datz to approve the minutes of the December 4th, 2024, meeting, motion 
was seconded by K. Martian. Motion carried.
The minutes of the December 4th, 2024, meeting were approved as distributed.  
Reports:
Financial Report: Budget provided by B. Joyce  
B. Joyce  shared with the Board trends of reimbursement amount vs net spend for pharmacy 
drug claims. This information can be found in the handout.   
Financial Report: Top Drugs provided by B. Joyce  
B. Joyce presented the quarterly review of the top 25 drugs based on total number and cost of 
claims and the top 15 therapeutic classes based on number and cost of claims. This report can 
be found in the handout.  
Retrospective Drug Utilization Review (RDUR) Report by J. McKee 
J. McKee reviewed the quarterly RDUR criteria that were selected for review of each month and 
information from a targeted mailing. This material can be found in the handout.  
Clinical Report and Annual PDL Review: Prior Authorization and Criteria Updates by J. McKee  
J. McKee presented prior authorization and criteria updates with emphasis on the following 
sections in the PDL: Amyloidosis, GLP-1 Receptor Agonist Combinations, Metabolic Dysfunction-
Associated Steatohepatitis, Parkinson’s Disease . Testimony was provided by Shawn Hanse from 
Novo Nordisk on Ozempic, Tara McKinely from Madrigal Pharmaceuticals on Rezdiffra, and Christine 
Dube from Astrazeneca on Airsupra. 
Unfinished business: provided by J. McKee   
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nJ. McKee provided updates on alternative RDUR communication tools. The presented material 
can be found in the handout.   
New business:  
First Reviews presented by J. McKee  
J. McKee presented an overview of diabetes mellitus. The presented material can be found in 
the handout.   
Motion: Moved by K. Martian to draft prior authorization for diabetes mellitus, motion was 
seconded by A. Werremeyer. Motion carried.
Second Reviews presented by J. McKee    
J. McKee presented group prior authorization criteria for Migraine Prophylaxis and Treatment. 
Testimony was provided by Jasmine Inman from Teva on Ajovy.
Motion: Moved by K. Datz to place Migraine Prophylaxis and Treatment on prior authorization, 
motion was seconded by K. Martian. Motion carried.
J. McKee presented group prior authorization criteria for Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs.  
Motion: Moved by A. Werremeyer to place Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs on prior 
authorization, motion was seconded by A. Dahl. Motion carried.
J. McKee presented group prior authorization criteria for Primary Biliary Cholangitis.  
Motion: Moved by K. Martian to place Primary Biliary Cholangitis on prior authorization, motion 
was seconded by K. Datz. Motion carried.
Retrospective Drug Utilization Review (RDUR) Criteria Recommendations: 
RDUR criteria recommendations were reviewed. The presented material can be found in the 
handout.  
Motion: Moved by K. Martian to approve the RDUR criteria, motion was seconded by K. Datz. 
Motion carried.
Announcements:
Next meeting is June 4th, 2025.  
Adjournment: 
Meeting adjourned by K. Martian at 1:54 pm CST.   
Date of Minutes Approval: June 4, 2025 
Minutes submitted by: Julie McKee, Acentra Health\n