Source URL: https://medicaidprovider.mt.gov/docs/pharmacydur/2024Dur/MTDecember2024DURMeetingAgenda.pdf
State: Montana
Label: December 4, 2024
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
Montana Healthcare Programs Drug Utilization Review Board Agenda 
Hosted by Mountain Pacific Quality Health 
December 4, 2024 
1-5 PM 
Virtual Call Only 
Register in advance for this meeting: 
https://events.teams.microsoft.com/event/a2dacd00-f04e-410f-80b6-25ad02551b45@1f053f7a-e47d-43fd-9182-
8507c9ff10c7 
1. Introductions 
2. Public Comment- 15 minutes. 
Public Comment will be permitted on items over which the DUR Board has jurisdiction. The public 
comment period will be limited to 15 minutes. All persons wishing to speak through the video 
conferencing platform must notify the Department by submitting their name and topic they wish to 
speak on via https://forms.office.com/g/EkPyKbJYTv by noon the day prior to the meeting. Individual 
comment will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes per person but may be subject to further limitations 
depending on the number of speakers (15 minutes divided by total speakers). 
Due to time constraints, all persons are encouraged to provide written comment, especially those 
providing clinical information, to allow the board adequate time to review and research. Please email 
written comments and/or clinical information, with a statement indicating that it is public comment, to 
PDL@mt.gov at least 7 days prior to the meeting. Please limit clinical information to 2 pages and to 
new information since last review. New peer-reviewed randomized comparative controlled trials or 
randomized controlled trials with true health outcomes are most helpful. Please do not provide any 
pricing information. Materials submitted less than 7 days prior to the meeting, in excess of 2 pages, 
and/or including pricing information will not be included in the board members’ meeting packets. 
3. Meeting Minutes 
• September DUR Board 
4. Department Update 
5. PA Criteria updates: 
• Age Extensions and Language Updates 
o Kerendia®-guideline update 
• New Indication/Formulation 
o Nexletol®/Nexlizet® new indication 
o Bimzelx® new indications 
o Dupixent® new indication and age expansion 
o Leqembi® update 
o Zolgensma ® update 
o Tremfya® 
6. New Drugs 
• Ohtuvayre® 
• Ebglyss® 
• Yorvipath® 
7. PA Criteria removal or changes 
• Jynarque® (tolvaptan) 
--- Page 2 ---
8. Eohilia Discussion 
9. Follow-up to Board's query request regarding multiple sclerosis diagnoses in members 20 years of age 
and younger.
