STATE: Tennessee
URL: https://capitol.tn.gov/Archives/Joint/committees/gov-opps/jud/Division%20of%20TennCare%20Performance%20Audit.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: seed

--- Page 1 ---
                   STATE OF TENNESSEE 
COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY 
 
 
 
 
DIVISION OF TENNCARE 
AND TENNCARE PHARMACY ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Audit Report 
  
December 2018 
 
 
 
 
Justin P. Wilson, Comptroller 
 
 
 
 
 
Division of State Audit 


--- Page 2 ---
DEBORAH V. LOVELESS, CPA, CGFM, CGMA 
Director 
 
STATE AGENCY AUDITS 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
KANDI B. THOMAS, CPA, CFE, CGFM, CGMA 
DANIEL V. WILLIS, CPA, CISA, CGFM 
Assistant Director 
Assistant Director 
 
 
JENNIFER WHITSEL, CPA, CFE, CGMA 
BRENT L. RUMBLEY, CPA, CISA, CFE 
Audit Manager 
Audit Manager 
 
 
Laura Carroll, CPA, CFE, CISA 
Jeff White, CPA, CISA 
Lindsey Stadterman, CFE 
In-Charge Auditor 
In-Charge Auditors 
 
 
Andrew Bullard 
John Bowman, CFE 
Laurel Gruber, CPA 
Amanda Cain, CFE 
Staff Auditors 
Chris Colvard 
 
Michael Deloach, CPA, CGFM 
 
Holly Estes 
 
Landon Myers 
 
Sheila Raymer, CFE 
 
Angela Stricklin, CFE 
 
Staff Auditors 
 
 
Amy Brack 
Editor 
 
Amanda Adams 
Assistant Editor 
 
Comptroller of the Treasury, Division of State Audit 
Cordell Hull Building 
425 Fifth Avenue North 
Nashville, TN 37243 
(615) 401-7897 
 
Reports are available at 
www.comptroller.tn.gov/sa/AuditReportCategories.asp  
 
Mission Statement 
The mission of the Comptroller’s Office is 
to make government work better. 
 
Comptroller Website 
www.comptroller.tn.gov 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
December 4, 2018 
 
 
The Honorable Randy McNally 
  Speaker of the Senate 
The Honorable Beth Harwell 
  Speaker of the House of Representatives 
The Honorable Mike Bell, Chair 
  Senate Committee on Government Operations 
The Honorable Jeremy Faison, Chair 
  House Committee on Government Operations 
and 
Members of the General Assembly 
State Capitol 
Nashville, Tennessee 37243 
and 
Dr. Wendy Long, Deputy Commissioner 
Division of TennCare 
310 Great Circle Road 
Nashville, Tennessee 37243 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
 
We have conducted a performance audit of selected programs and activities of the Division of 
TennCare, including the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee, for the period August 1, 2014, 
through September 30, 2018.  This audit was conducted pursuant to the requirements of the Tennessee 
Governmental Entity Review Law, Section 4-29-111, Tennessee Code Annotated. 
 
Our audit disclosed certain findings, which are detailed in the Audit Conclusions section of this 
report.  Management of the division has responded to the audit findings; we have included the responses 
following each finding.  We will follow up the audit to examine the application of the procedures 
instituted because of the audit findings. 
 
This report is intended to aid the Joint Government Operations Committee in its review to 
determine whether the division and the committee should be continued, restructured, or terminated. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Deborah V. Loveless, CPA 
Director 
DVL/jw 
18/043


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
TennCare’s Scheduled Termination Date:   
June 30, 2019 
 
TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee’s 
Scheduled Termination Date:   
June 30, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUDIT HIGHLIGHTS 
 
Division of TennCare’s Mission 
Improving lives through high-quality cost-effective care. 
 
We have audited the Division of TennCare and 
the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee for the 
period August 1, 2014, through September 30, 2018. 
Our audit scope included a review of internal controls 
and compliance with laws, regulations, policies, 
procedures, and provisions of contracts or grant 
agreements in the following areas:   
 
 follow-up on prior audit findings relating to Employment and Community First 
CHOICES and CHOICES programs; 
 implementation of TennCare’s payment reform initiatives; 
 program integrity data matches for  
o member eligibility; 
o long-term care services;  
o provider screening; and 
o non-emergency medical transportation; 
 eligibility redetermination;   
 provider network accessibility; 
 TennCare’s strategies to combat Tennessee’s opioid epidemic; 
 the Drug Utilization Review Board and the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory 
Committee; 
 information systems, including the TennCare Eligibility Determination System 
(TEDS) implementation; and 
 TennCare’s efforts to protect public records, including records disposition 
authorizations. 
Division of State Audit 
Division of TennCare 
Performance Audit  
December 2018 
Our mission is to make government work better. 


--- Page 5 ---
 
 
Observations 
Findings 
KEY CONCLUSIONS 
For  notes  about  TennCare’s 
other  areas  that  are  not 
included  within  the  scope  of 
this  audit,  see  the  Single 
Audit  and  Federal  Reviews 
section on page 4. 
 
 As noted in two prior audits, spanning eight years, TennCare did not develop 
formal policies to track registration processing times (page 12). 
 TennCare could not provide sufficient documentation to support actual cost savings, 
did not set clear vendor contract expectations, and did not fully document and 
implement a formal monitoring plan, which calls into question whether the episodes 
of care strategy is positively changing the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee 
(page 24). 
 TennCare did not recapture improper payments made 
on behalf of deceased, incarcerated, and duplicate 
members (page 38). 
 TennCare did not ensure its managed care contractors 
established controls to prevent improper claims and to 
ensure that TennCare members received critical long-
term care services (page 46). 
 TennCare and its managed care contractors did not detect and terminate potentially 
ineligible providers (page 52). 
 TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls in three specific areas (page 79). 
 
The following topics are included in this report because of their effect on the 
operations of TennCare and the citizens of Tennessee: 
 
 TennCare and the managed care organizations should increase their education 
outreach to providers regarding payment calculations, commendable threshold 
methodology, and quality measurements (page 30). 
 TennCare began implementing the primary care transformation strategy in fall 2016; 
however, by the end of audit fieldwork, management did not have sufficient data to 
evaluate the strategy’s success (page 35). 
 Greater oversight of the non-emergency medical transportation program could help 
TennCare detect improper claims (page 59). 
 TennCare did not properly terminate, modify, and document member eligibility for 
Medicare Savings Program benefits; however, management believes the upcoming 
implementation of the Tennessee Eligibility Determination System will resolve these 
issues (page 62).  
 Although the managed care contractors’ networks met or exceeded TennCare’s 
established network accessibility standards, TennCare’s standards were set to permit 
the networks to retain fewer than 10 physicians per specialty, which could pose 
barriers to access should networks choose to operate at the minimum standard 
requirements (page 65). 


--- Page 6 ---
 
 
 TennCare has implemented strategies to reduce opioid abuse among its members, but 
the effectiveness of those strategies cannot be measured currently (page 70). 
 To achieve the required TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board and TennCare 
Pharmacy Advisory Committee representation, meet quorum requirements, and 
ensure all viewpoints are represented, all members should attend meetings and vacant 
positions should be quickly filled (page 75). 
 After six years in development, TennCare’s new eligibility determination system is 
anticipated to launch in spring 2019, at a total cost of $475 million (page 80). 
 Management is making strides to update records disposition authorizations (page 84). 
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
INTRODUCTION 
1 
Audit Authority 
1 
Background 
1 
 
AUDIT SCOPE 
8 
 
PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS 
9 
Report of Actions Taken on Prior Audit Findings 
9 
Resolved Audit Findings 
9 
Repeated Audit Finding  
9 
 
Audit Conclusions 
 
Prior Audit Findings 
 
CHOICES and Employment and Community First CHOICES  
11 
Provider Database 
12 
Finding 1 – 
As noted in two prior audits, spanning eight years, 
TennCare did not develop formal policies to track 
registration processing times 
12 
Payment Reform 
 
Episodes of Care  
17 
Finding 2 – 
TennCare could not provide sufficient documentation to 
support actual cost savings, did not set clear vendor 
contract expectations, and did not fully document and 
implement a formal monitoring plan, which calls into 
question whether the episodes of care strategy is positively 
changing the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee 
24 
Observation 1 –  
TennCare and the managed care organizations should 
increase their education outreach to providers regarding 
payment 
calculations, 
commendable 
threshold 
methodology, and quality measurements 
30 
Long-Term Services and Supports and Primary Care Transformation 
33 
Observation 2 –  
TennCare 
began 
implementing 
the 
primary 
care 
transformation strategy in fall 2016; however, by the end 
of audit fieldwork, management did not have sufficient 
data to evaluate the strategy’s success 
35 


--- Page 8 ---
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.) 
 
             
Page 
Program Integrity 
 
Member Eligibility 
37 
Finding 3 – 
TennCare did not recapture improper payments made on 
behalf of deceased, incarcerated, and duplicate members 
38 
Long-Term Care Services 
44 
Finding 4 – 
TennCare did not ensure its managed care contractors 
established controls to prevent improper claims and to 
ensure that TennCare members received critical long-term 
care services 
46 
Provider Screening 
51 
Finding 5 – 
TennCare and its managed care contractors did not detect 
and terminate potentially ineligible providers 
52 
Non-emergency Medical Transportation Services 
58 
Observation 3 – 
Greater 
oversight 
of 
the 
non-emergency 
medical 
transportation program could help TennCare detect 
improper claims 
59 
Eligibility Redetermination 
 
Observation 4 – 
TennCare did not properly terminate, modify, and 
document member eligibility for Medicare Savings 
Program benefits; however, management believes the 
upcoming implementation of the Tennessee Eligibility 
Determination System will resolve these issues 
62 
Provider Network Accessibility 
 
Observation 5 – 
Although the managed care contractors’ networks met or 
exceeded TennCare’s established network accessibility 
standards, TennCare’s standards were set to permit the 
networks to retain fewer than 10 physicians per specialty, 
which could pose barriers to access should networks 
choose to operate at the minimum standard requirements 
65 
Opioid Epidemic 
 
TennCare’s Opioid Strategy 
69 
Observation 6 – 
TennCare has implemented strategies to reduce opioid 
abuse among its members, but the effectiveness of those 
strategies cannot be measured currently 
70 


--- Page 9 ---
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.) 
 
             
Page 
TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board and TennCare Pharmacy 
Advisory Committee 
73 
Observation 7 – 
To achieve the required TennCare Drug Utilization 
Review Board and TennCare Pharmacy Advisory 
Committee representation, meet quorum requirements, and 
ensure all viewpoints are represented, all members should 
attend meetings and vacant positions should be quickly 
filled 
75 
TennCare Operations 
Information Systems 
79 
Finding 6 – 
TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls in 
three specific areas 
79 
Observation 8 – 
After six years in development, TennCare’s new eligibility 
determination system is anticipated to launch in spring 
2019, at a total cost of $475 million 
80 
Public Records Management 
82 
Observation 9 – 
Management is making strides to update records 
disposition authorizations 
84 
APPENDICES 
87 
Appendix 1 – Methodologies to Achieve Audit Objectives 
87 
Appendix 2 – TennCare Members by Senate Legislative District 
97 
Appendix 3 – TennCare Members by House of Representatives Legislative District 
98 
Appendix 4 – 48 Episodes of Care as of April 2018 
99 
Appendix 5 – 2018 Episodes of Care Revisions as of September 2018 
101 
Appendix 6 – Perinatal Episode as of January 12, 2017 
102 
Appendix 7 – Glossary 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 10 ---
 
1 
INTRODUCTION__________________________________________________ 
 
AUDIT AUTHORITY 
 
 
This performance audit of the Division of TennCare (TennCare), including the TennCare 
Pharmacy Advisory Committee, was conducted pursuant to the Tennessee Governmental Entity 
Review Law, Title 4, Chapter 29, Tennessee Code Annotated.  Under Section 4-29-240, 
TennCare is scheduled to terminate June 30, 2019.  Under Section 4-29-241, the TennCare 
Pharmacy Advisory Committee is scheduled to terminate June 30, 2020.  The Comptroller of the 
Treasury is authorized under Section 4-29-111 to conduct a limited program review audit of the 
entities and to report to the Joint Government Operations Committee of the General Assembly.  
This audit is intended to aid the committee in determining whether TennCare and the committee 
should be continued, restructured, or terminated. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
TennCare is Tennessee’s Medicaid program, a 
federally funded program1 that provides health insurance 
coverage to certain groups of low-income individuals, such as 
pregnant women, children, caretaker relatives of dependent 
children and older adults, and adults with disabilities.  
TennCare has an annual budget of approximately $11.6 
billion and provides health coverage to approximately 1.4 
million Tennesseans.     
 
 
Established on January 1, 1994, TennCare 
is one of the oldest Medicaid managed care 
programs in the country.  It is the only program in 
the nation to enroll all of its Medicaid population 
into managed care through contracts with 
managed care organizations (MCOs).2 TennCare 
contracts with three MCOs and three benefits 
managers to manage and coordinate care and 
maintain a network of healthcare providers, 
including long-term care, for TennCare members.  
These contractors are 
 
 
AmeriGroup;  
 
BlueCare through Blue Cross Blue 
Shield of Tennessee;  
                                                          
1 The Comptroller of the Treasury annually audits TennCare for compliance with federal program requirements as 
part of the Single Audit.  For more information, see page 5.  
2 Throughout this report, managed care organizations will also be called managed care contractors or managed care 
plans. 
TennCare Membership 
 
20% of Tennessee residents 
50% of Tennessee’s births 
50% of Tennessee’s children 
 
Source: TennCare management, as of 
September 2018. 


--- Page 11 ---
 
2 
 UnitedHealthcare Community Plan;   
 TennCare Select through Blue Cross Blue Shield of Tennessee;  
 Magellan Health (pharmacy benefits); and  
 DentaQuest (dental benefits to children under age 21). 
 
Led by the Deputy Commissioner/Director, TennCare is composed of different 
operational units to meet its mission of improving lives through high-quality, cost-effective care. 
The division’s organizational structure is described on the following pages.  
 
 
Organizational Structure 
 
Deputy Commissioner/Director’s Direct Reports 
 
The Long-Term Services and Supports Unit offers long-term services and supports to 
individuals enrolled in TennCare.  Long-term services and supports are medical and/or personal 
care and supportive services needed by individuals 
who have lost some capacity to perform activities that 
are essential to daily living.  These activities include 
not only bathing, dressing, eating, and toileting but 
also completing housework, preparing meals, taking medications, shopping, and managing 
money.  The unit also works with the Department of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 
to administer the Employment and Community First CHOICES (ECF CHOICES) program, 
which is a program for people of all ages who have an intellectual or developmental disability. 
 
The Strategic Planning and Innovation Group takes on new TennCare initiatives by 
serving in a leadership role with special projects, taking these new initiatives and special projects 
to various TennCare divisions, and helping these divisions develop long-term strategies to 
successfully execute them. 
 
In the Communications and Employee Relations Office, the Public Affairs Office 
coordinates TennCare’s communications with the General Assembly, other state agencies, 
healthcare associations, advocates, members, and the news media.  The Office of Civil Rights 
Compliance and the Administrative Services Office coordinate employee relations by ensuring 
fair and consistent treatment to all employees.  
 
Chief of Staff’s Direct Reports 
 
The Fiscal Division includes accounting and budget personnel and purchasing functions, 
as well as a responsibility to monitor, review, and sign off on all contracts.   
 
TennCare’s  organizational  chart  is 
on page 7. 
See Appendix 7 on page 103 for a glossary of TennCare‐related terms used throughout this 
report. 


--- Page 12 ---
 
3 
The Information Systems Division is responsible for the Medicaid management 
information system (known as interChange), which includes member eligibility and enrollment; 
claims processing; data analysis; data reporting; and other related systems functions.  This 
division also handles all of TennCare’s hardware, software, and system security needs. 
 
The Policy Unit prepares program proposals for the federal Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services (CMS) for Medicaid waiver agreements; files appropriate rules to support 
TennCare’s programs; files Medicaid State Plan amendments; conducts research and writes 
policy statements to interpret programs; and submits reports required by the waiver agreements 
to CMS.   
 
The Legislative Affairs Office monitors legislation affecting TennCare by reviewing filed 
legislation and coordinating activities of staff involved in the review and analysis of the 
legislation.   
 
The Audit and Investigations Unit works with TennCare’s staff to evaluate internal 
controls to ensure that assets are safeguarded; information is accurate and reliable; internal 
policies and procedures as well as external laws and regulations are followed; resources are used 
efficiently; operations and programs are carried out as designed; and prior audit findings are 
resolved. 
 
The Project Management Office assists with a wide range of projects across TennCare.  It 
works on a variety of projects, such as TennCare divisional work efforts, various Medicaid-
related initiatives, process improvement plans, business-related endeavors, and information 
technology.  The project managers often serve as a single point of contact between different 
groups and work to resolve problems and develop relationships at all levels.  The office also 
serves as a key element in maintaining the proper relationship with outside vendors and 
contractors.   
 
Chief Operating Officer’s Direct Reports 
 
The Medical Office provides medical direction for the TennCare program and provides 
oversight of the medical, pharmacy, and dental services delivered through a network of MCOs 
and benefits managers.  The office is involved in developing medical policy and monitoring 
access to care, service quality, and health outcomes.  The office also serves as the focal point for 
provider education.    
 
The Pharmacy Division staff serve in an administrative role for the Drug Utilization 
Review Board and the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee.  See page 73 of this report for 
more information about both entities. 
 
Managed Care Operations is responsible for managing and overseeing TennCare’s 
MCOs.  The office negotiates the contracts with the MCOs, monitors contract compliance, and 
refines MCO performance measures. 
 
The Office of General Counsel provides TennCare’s legal counsel.  This includes legal 
oversight of the development, implementation, and monitoring of TennCare’s contracts for its 


--- Page 13 ---
 
4 
MCOs, contractors, grantees, subcontractors, and vendors.  The office works with other staff to 
ensure compliance with federal and state laws, regulations, court rulings, and consent decrees.    
The office assists in drafting TennCare rules and policies.  The office is also involved in legal 
proceedings involving TennCare. 
   
Member Services leads TennCare’s application process, eligibility redeterminations and 
terminations, and all other efforts involving TennCare’s members.  Member Services also 
processes TennCare member’ eligibility, medical, pharmacy, and dental appeals and handles 
other related appeal issues.   
 
TennCare’s Expenditures and Revenues 
 
TennCare is funded by a combination of federal grant funds and state appropriations.  
Through its grants with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal 
government covers 50% of TennCare’s administrative costs, approximately 65% of costs for 
medical services,3 and 90% of costs toward information system implementation. TennCare’s 
budget for fiscal year 2018 and expenditures and revenues (both federal and state) for fiscal year 
2017 can be found in Table 1. 
 
Table 1 
Division of TennCare4 
Fiscal Year 2017–2018 Recommended Budget and 
Fiscal Year 2016–2017 Actual Expenditures and Revenues 
Department of Revenue 
FY 2017-2018 Recommended 
Budget* 
FY 2016-2017 Actual 
Expenditures and 
Revenues** 
Expenditures  Payroll 
$91,934,900 
$73,941,182 
 
 Operational 
          11,491,186,400 
10,928,559,790 
 
 Total 
    $11,583,121,300  
$11,002,500,972 
 
  
 
 
Revenues 
 State 
$3,677,385,900 
 $3,532,697,100 
 
 Federal 
     7,163,104,200 
6,701,051,000 
 
 Other 
742,631,200 
840,067,400 
 
 Total 
  $11,583,121,300 
$11,073,815,500 
*Source: Tennessee State Budget, Fiscal Year 2017–2018. 
**Source: Tennessee State Budget, Fiscal Year 2016–2017 (Actual Revenues) and State Audit Information Systems 
(Actual Expenditures). 
 
Single Audit and Federal Reviews 
 
As part of the annual Single Audit of the State of Tennessee, the Comptroller of the 
                                                          
3 CMS adjusts federal financial participation rate annually based on federal fiscal year (October to September).  For 
state fiscal year 2017, the rate from July 1 through September 30, 2016, was 65.05%; from October 1, 2016, through 
June 30, 2017, it was 64.96%. 
4 TennCare’s Edison business unit code is 31865.   


--- Page 14 ---
 
5 
Treasury’s Division of State Audit performs a risk assessment and audits certain federal 
programs administered by state agencies.  We review TennCare’s systems of internal control 
over federally funded programs and compliance with program regulations.  The Single Audit’s 
objective is to determine the state’s compliance with federal requirements regarding how those 
funds were used.  Given that TennCare’s operations are mostly funded by the federal 
government, we also include certain areas in the scope of our performance audit: 
 
 member eligibility; 
 allowable activities; and  
 allowable costs.  
 
Our focus for the current performance audit, for the period August 1, 2014, through September 
30, 2018, was on TennCare’s processes and their effectiveness and efficiency.  During the audit 
period, TennCare’s Medical Assistance and Children’s Health Insurance programs were included 
in the state’s fiscal year 2015, 2016, and 2017 Single Audits as described in Table 2.  See Table 
2 for a summary of the expenditures associated with these programs and the numbers of findings 
reported. 
 
Table 2 
Single Audit Findings – Division of TennCare5 
Federal Program  
Average Federal 
Funds Expended 
During Fiscal 
Years 2015–2017 
Findings by Fiscal Year 
2015 
2016 
2017 
Medical Assistance Program 
$6,538,987,010 
1 
2 
3 
Children’s Health Insurance Program6 
$144,087,871 
N/A 
N/A 
0 
Total Findings 
1 
2 
3 
 
A summary of the TennCare’s results for fiscal year 2017 is presented in Table 3. 
 
Table 3 
Finding Summary for 2017 Single Audit  
NEW FINDINGS 
3 
KNOWN QUESTIONED COSTS 
$39,736 
 
 
 
                                                          
5 Source: Single Audit reports for fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017: 
http://www.comptroller.tn.gov/repository/SA/2015_TN_Single_Audit.pdf  
http://www.comptroller.tn.gov/repository/SA/2016_TN_Single_Audit.pdf   
http://www.comptroller.tn.gov/repository/SA/2017_TN_Single_Audit.pdf  
6 The Children’s Health Insurance Program was not audited for fiscal years 2015 and 2016 Single Audits. 


--- Page 15 ---
 
6 
New Findings 
 
2017-006  TennCare inappropriately overdrew $37,923 of net federal reimbursements because it 
did not allocate indirect administrative expenses in accordance with its approved 
public assistance cost allocation plan 
 
2017-007  TennCare paid two fee-for-service claims at incorrect amounts, resulting in federal 
questioned costs of $1,813 
 
2017-008  TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls in one specific area 
 
In response to Single Audit findings and recommendations, TennCare must develop 
corrective action plans to submit to the appropriate federal awarding agency.  The federal grantor 
is responsible for issuing final management decisions on TennCare’s findings, including any 
directives to repay the federal grants.  Our office is required to determine whether TennCare has 
taken full corrective action, partial corrective action, or no action. 
    
 
We are currently auditing, for the 2018 Single Audit, the Medical Assistance Program.  
The audit results, including any uncorrected 2017 findings, will be reported by March 31, 2019. 
 


--- Page 16 ---
 
7 
Division of TennCare 
Organizational Chart 
April 2018 
 
Policy Unit
Office of General Counsel
Medical Office
Deputy Director
Chief of Staff
Communications & Employee 
Relations Office
Fiscal Division
Information Systems 
Division
Audit & Investigations 
Unit
Long Term Services & Supports 
Unit
Member Services
Managed Care Operations
Project Management 
Office
Legislative Affairs Office
Deputy Commissioner/ 
Director
Strategic Planning & Innovation 
Group
Deputy Director
Chief Operating Officer
 
Source: TennCare management.


--- Page 17 ---
 
8 
AUDIT SCOPE_____________________________________________________ 
 
We have audited the Division of TennCare and the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory 
Committee for the period August 1, 2014, through September 30, 2018. Our audit scope included 
a review of internal controls and compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and 
provisions of contracts or grant agreements in the following areas:   
 
 follow-up on prior audit findings relating to Employment and Community First 
CHOICES and CHOICES programs; 
 implementation of TennCare’s payment reform initiatives; 
 program integrity data matches for  
o member eligibility;  
o long-term care services;  
o provider screening; and 
o non-emergency transportation claims;  
 eligibility redetermination;  
 provider network accessibility; 
 TennCare’s strategies to combat Tennessee’s opioid epidemic; 
 the Drug Utilization Review Board and the TennCare Pharmacy Advisory 
Committee; 
 information systems, including the TennCare Eligibility Determination System 
(TEDS) implementation; and 
 TennCare’s efforts to protect public records, including records disposition 
authorizations. 
 
TennCare’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal 
control and for complying with applicable laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and provisions 
of contracts and grant agreements. 
 
For our sample design, we used nonstatistical audit sampling, which was the most 
appropriate and cost-effective method for concluding on our audit objectives.  Based on our 
professional judgment, review of authoritative sampling guidance, and careful consideration of 
underlying statistical concepts, we believe that nonstatistical sampling provides sufficient, 
appropriate audit evidence to support the conclusions in our report.  Although our sample results 
provide reasonable bases for drawing conclusions, the errors identified in these samples cannot 
be used to make statistically valid projections to the original populations.  We present more 
detailed information about our methodologies in Appendix 1. 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted government auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, 
appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our 


--- Page 18 ---
 
9 
audit objectives.  We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives.   
 
 
PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS___________________________________________ 
 
REPORT OF ACTIONS TAKEN ON PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS 
 
Section 8-4-109, Tennessee Code Annotated, requires that each state department, agency, 
or institution report to the Comptroller of the Treasury the action taken to implement the 
recommendations in the prior audit report.  The December 2014 TennCare performance audit 
report contained two findings: one finding on the CHOICES application process and one finding 
on the provider database.  TennCare filed its report with the Comptroller of the Treasury on July 
15, 2015.  The November 2017 performance audit of the Department of Intellectual and 
Developmental Disabilities contained one finding relevant to TennCare on Employment and 
Community First (ECF) CHOICES.  TennCare filed its report with the Comptroller of the 
Treasury on January 12, 2018.  We conducted a follow-up of the prior audit findings as part of 
the current audit.   
 
RESOLVED AUDIT FINDINGS 
 
The current audit disclosed that TennCare resolved the previous audit findings 
concerning the December 2014 report finding on the CHOICES application process and the 
November 2017 report finding on ECF CHOICES. 
 
REPEATED AUDIT FINDING 
 
The December 2014 performance audit report also contained a finding stating that 
“provider database completeness and accuracy have improved, but problems remain.”  The 
current audit disclosed that this prior finding was partially resolved, and it is reported in the Prior 
Audit Findings section of this report. 


--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
 


--- Page 20 ---
 
 
 
Audit Conclusions 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 21 ---
 
 
 
Prior Audit Findings 


--- Page 22 ---
 
11 
CHOICES AND EMPLOYMENT AND COMMUNITY FIRST CHOICES____ 
 
General Background 
 
In the December 2014 TennCare performance audit report, we identified a finding that 
involved the CHOICES application process.  Tennessee’s CHOICES program offers nursing 
home and home- and community-based services
7 for adults (age 21 and older) with a physical 
disability and seniors (age 65 and older).  Because Medicaid financial and medical eligibility 
rules and processes are inherently complex due to federal and other legal requirements, it is 
important to communicate this information to applicants and enrollees effectively and in a way 
that is easy to understand.  
 
In the November 2017 Department of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 
(DIDD) performance audit report, a joint DIDD and TennCare finding involved the launch of a 
new program called Employment and Community First CHOICES (ECF CHOICES).  ECF 
CHOICES is for people of all ages who have an intellectual or developmental disability.  This 
program helps individuals gain as much independence as possible by providing support so that 
they can live with their families or in the community.  This program also helps the individual 
explore the possibility of working.  In the 2017 finding, we identified the following concerns: 
 
 TennCare did not receive key information about potential members who expressed 
interest in applying for ECF CHOICES; 
 TennCare’s initial program correspondence confused members and their families; and  
 ECF CHOICES did not reach its first-year enrollment target of 1,700 members 
enrolled. 
 
Audit Results  
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare correct the December 2014 finding by distributing easy-to-
understand information about the CHOICES application process? 
 
Conclusion: 
We reviewed TennCare’s applications, notices, and websites that explain 
the rules regarding eligibility for its CHOICES program and determined 
that they were easy to understand. 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare address the concerns that emerged before, during, and after 
the launch of ECF CHOICES? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
Based on our interviews with management and inspection of program 
documents, we determined TennCare addressed concerns that emerged 
before, during, and after the launch of ECF CHOICES.  
 
 
                                                          
7 This program offers services to help people live in their own homes or communities. 


--- Page 23 ---
 
12 
PROVIDER DATABASE____________________________________________ 
 
General Background 
 
TennCare’s Provider Services staff is responsible for establishing and managing the 
process for allowing Tennessee providers to register as TennCare providers and serve TennCare 
members’ medical needs.  In the December 2014 TennCare sunset performance audit report, we 
noted a finding concerning TennCare’s provider registration process.  The prior audit disclosed 
that Provider Services management did not have a formal process to track provider registration 
processing times.  Our prior audit also noted that when we compared provider files to 
information in interChange, the files were confusing or needed corrections.  For example, 
TennCare’s provider files should have the providers’ correct TennCare identification numbers 
and National Provider Identifiers (a unique provider identification number required by the 
federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act).  
 
In September 2012, Provider Services staff began using the Provider Database 
Management System to allow providers to register electronically.  Provider Services staff review 
and approve provider registrations so that providers can obtain a Medicaid ID, which is used for 
claims processing and allows the providers to contract with any one of TennCare’s managed care 
contractors. 
 
Audit Results  
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare resolve the problems with the provider data to improve 
completeness and accuracy? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
We reviewed TennCare’s Provider Database Management System, 
interChange, and the Department of Health’s licensure verification 
database, and we determined that Provider Services improved 
completeness and accuracy of provider data.  
 
2. Audit Objective:  Did TennCare develop a formal process to track registration processing 
times? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
In TennCare’s response to the prior audit finding dated July 15, 2015, 
TennCare stated that when management completed the system transition 
in 2015, it should resolve the remaining issues we identified; however, in 
the current audit, we determined that Provider Services did not have a 
formal process to track registration processing times (see Finding 1). 
 
 
Finding 1 – As noted in two prior audits, spanning eight years, TennCare did not develop 
formal policies to track registration processing times 
 
In our 2011 Department of Finance and Administration performance report, we first 
reported that TennCare did not have a way to accurately measure and track processing times for 


--- Page 24 ---
 
13 
provider applications.  In 2014, we reported that TennCare did not complete regular reports to 
monitor how long it took staff to process provider registrations and did not establish a policy to 
track application processing times.  
 
Management concurred in part with the 2011 finding and concurred in full with the 2014 
finding.  Management stated in its comments to the 2014 finding that when the transition to the 
Provider Database Management System (PDMS) was complete in 2015, the remaining issues 
identified should be resolved.  In addition, in management’s report of action to implement the 
recommendations of audit findings submitted to the Comptroller of the Treasury on July 15, 
2015, management stated that “in the next scheduled software release [of PDMS] is a new 
reporting functionality with export capabilities, which will facilitate tracking registration 
processing times.”  
 
In the current audit, however, we confirmed with management that it did not use PDMS 
to create a report to track registration processing times.  In addition, management has not 
developed a formal policy to address registration processing times.  In our discussion with 
Provider Services management, staff use an informal 10-day standard to complete and approve 
applications, which we used as criteria for our audit work. 
 
Results of Current Audit Work 
 
Because Provider Services management did not track registration processing times, we 
requested a list of active providers to select a sample to determine the length of time it took 
Provider Services staff to approve applications.  We requested a list of active providers from 
November 1, 2014, to May 30, 2018, which resulted in a population of 13,851 providers.  From 
the population, we tested a nonstatistical, random sample of 25 provider registrations that 
Provider Services staff received and processed in PDMS.  We found that for 14 applications 
(56%), Provider Services staff took an average of 147 days to approve the applications.  See the 
results in Table 4.  
 
Table 4 
Provider Application Processing Times  
Problem Identified 
TennCare’s Explanation 
Range of Days Late 
7 applications – PDMS identified potential 
application errors, but we could not 
determine what the errors were.  An 
application error occurs when a provider’s 
application has missing, incomplete, or 
deficient information.  Minor errors (for 
example, a missing phone number) do not 
prevent TennCare from approving a 
provider’s registration.  Major errors (for 
example, a missing medical license 
number) suspends the application process 
and requires corrective action, either from 
TennCare or the provider.  
TennCare uses a contractor 
to develop and update the 
PDMS system.  The PDMS 
contractor performed a 
system update at some 
point between late 2015 
and early 2016, causing the 
potential errors to 
disappear.   
Staff took 33 to 457 
days to approve the 
applications.   


--- Page 25 ---
 
14 
7 applications – PDMS identified 
application errors.  The applications were 
in the system’s queue waiting for staff to 
resolve the errors. 
Upon application 
submission, PDMS 
displays a message that 
applications will be 
processed in 10 days.  
Management stated that the 
message is informational, 
not an agreement.  
Staff took 19 to 288 
days to approve the 
applications. 
 
The U.S. Government Accountability Office developed the Standards for Internal 
Control in the Federal Government (Green Book) to set standards for an effective internal 
control system for the federal government and serve as a best practice for states.  Internal 
controls help entities like TennCare run their operations efficiently and effectively; report 
reliable information about their operations; and comply with applicable laws and regulations. 
According to Section 12.03 of the Green Book,  
 
Management documents in policies for each unit its responsibility for an 
operational process’s objectives and related risks, and control activity design, 
implementation, and operating effectiveness. Each unit, with guidance from 
management, determines the policies necessary to operate the process based on 
the objectives and related risks for the operational process. Each unit also 
documents policies in the appropriate level of detail to allow management to 
effectively monitor the control activity.  
 
Also, Section 12.04 states, 
 
Those in key roles for the unit may further define policies through day-to-day 
procedures, depending on the rate of change in the operating environment and 
complexity of the operational process. Procedures may include the timing of when 
a control activity occurs and any follow-up corrective actions to be performed by 
competent personnel if deficiencies are identified. Management communicates to 
personnel the policies and procedures so that personnel can implement the control 
activities for their assigned responsibilities. 
 
Provider Services management is responsible for providing customer service for 
providers that want to register and serve TennCare’s members.  Such customer service could 
include reviewing errors in the application and answering questions from providers about the 
application process.  The registration process allows members to have a choice of providers and 
services to meet their medical needs.  By not implementing and monitoring registration 
efficiency, management increases the risk of delaying or limiting medical or service options for 
its members.  
 
Recommendation  
 
Provider Services management should analyze application processing times in order to 
develop policies that address the registration process.  These policies should also include 


--- Page 26 ---
 
15 
procedures for meeting performance goals for prompt processing, and for regularly monitoring 
these process times to ensure staff resolve registration errors and promptly approve registrations. 
 
Management’s Comment 
 
We concur in part. We agree that we did not develop a formal policy to track provider 
registration processing times.  In response to the audit finding, TennCare will develop a written 
policy regarding the provider registration process detailing staff and system expectations and 
processing time goals.  However, we do not agree that we do not use the Provider Database 
Management System (PDMS) to track provider processing times, and we strongly disagree with 
the assertion that staff took an average of 147 days to process 14 of 25 applications reviewed by 
the auditors.   
 
The PDMS has a fully functioning reporting system, and Provider Services staff use 
PDMS reports daily for various monitoring and tracking purposes.  For example, each Provider 
Services staff member responsible for processing provider applications has written job 
responsibilities that state “. . . PDMS provider errors generated from the interface with CAQH 
must be worked and monitored daily to enable providers to complete the registration and receive 
their Medicaid ID.”  These provider errors are discovered through reviewing PDMS-generated 
reports.  
 
In the case of each of the 14 applications cited by the auditors as exceeding TennCare’s 
informal 10-day processing standard, the delay from the time the provider initially expressed 
interest in becoming a TennCare-registered provider until the date a Medicaid ID was assigned 
by Provider Registration staff was attributable to the provider (and/or the group the provider was 
attempting to affiliate with) not completing all required components of the application in a timely 
manner.  Once a complete application was received, TennCare staff processed each of these 14 
applications in less than 3 business days.  TennCare currently has multiple processes in place to 
communicate with providers when additional information is required to complete their 
application, and we will evaluate whether there are additional steps we could take to promote 
timely completion of applications by providers; however, processing by state staff cannot and 
does not begin until the application is complete.   
 
 
 


--- Page 27 ---
 
 


--- Page 28 ---
 
 
Payment Reform


--- Page 29 ---
 
17 
By launching the Tennessee Health Care Innovation Initiative in February 2013, the 
Governor gave TennCare and its healthcare stakeholders (including providers, clinicians, and 
insurance companies) an opportunity to maintain a sustainable rate of growth in 
the state’s healthcare costs while maintaining or improving quality of care.  This 
initiative changes how insurance companies pay for healthcare by moving from 
paying for volume (traditional fee-for-service) to paying for value (quality-based 
care).  The initiative rewards healthcare providers for providing high-quality, 
efficient medical treatment that enables patients to maintain their own health over time.  To help 
facilitate this effort, TennCare received a $65 million State Innovation Models grant from the 
federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which was awarded February 1, 
2015.
8  According to TennCare management, TennCare’s role is to coordinate with healthcare 
stakeholders and implement the initiative’s three strategies:   
 
1. Episodes of care is a value-based payment model that considers overall costs to treat 
members for certain conditions, such as knee replacement surgery or perinatal care.  
In addition to receiving their standard negotiated payments for services they provide, 
under the new episodes of care strategy, providers may earn rewards,
9 have a 
withholding, or experience no change in pay based on whether they gave efficient and 
effective care. 
2. Long-term services and supports focuses on improving respiratory care outcomes and 
providing a comprehensive training program to the direct support staff, such as nurses 
and nurse assistants, in the community or nursing facilities.  This is also known as 
Quality Improvement in Long-Term Services and Supports (QuILTSS). 
3. Primary care transformation helps members maintain their health over time by 
promoting higher-quality primary care, improving members’ overall health, and 
reducing the cost of care.  
 
 
EPISODES OF CARE_______________________________________________ 
 
National Focus on Cost Containment Strategies 
According to a National Conference of State Legislature issue brief on Health Cost 
Containment and Efficiencies, dated May 2010,
10 episode-based payments are in the beginning 
stages of design and use.  An episodes of care payment includes all the care a member receives 
in the course of treatment for a specific illness, condition, or medical event, which is different 
than the traditional fee-for-service reimbursement where providers are paid separately for each 
service.  Some examples of episodes of care for which a single, bundled payment can be made 
                                                          
8 The State Innovation Models grant allows CMS to partner with states to advance multiple-player healthcare 
payment and delivery system reform models.  Each state-led model aims to achieve better quality of care, lower 
costs, and improved health for the state’s population. 
9 TennCare uses the term “gain sharing payment” for bonuses or rewards and the term “risk sharing payment” for a 
withholding.  In our report we will use the terms “bonuses” or “rewards” to describe gain sharing payments and the 
term “withholding” to describe risk sharing payments.  
10 See the brief at http://www.ncsl.org/research/health/episode-of-care-payments-health.aspx. 


--- Page 30 ---
 
18 
include all physician, inpatient, and outpatient care for a knee or hip replacement or pregnancy 
and delivery.  Cost savings can occur in three ways: 
 
 negotiating a payment so the total cost will be less than fee-for-service 
reimbursement; 
 agreeing with providers that any savings that result under the episode-based payments 
will be shared between the payer and providers; or 
 improving quality of care to minimize medical complications and any related medical 
treatment. 
   
TennCare’s Initiative Summarized 
 
The episodes of care component of Tennessee’s Healthcare Innovation Initiative is an 
acute or specialist-driven strategy that seeks to reward providers who provide or facilitate the 
delivery of high-quality, cost-effective healthcare over the course of treating certain conditions.  
According to TennCare management, the episodes of care strategy focuses on multiple 
healthcare providers delivering services in association with acute healthcare events like surgical 
procedures, inpatient hospitalization, or other out-patient related procedures (such as a 
colonoscopy, respiratory infection, or congestive heart failure).  After its initial implementation 
of the first wave of episodes in 2015, TennCare was able to analyze a full years’ worth of data in 
2016 to determine whether the episodes were properly designed.  
 
Originally, TennCare management planned to implement 75 different episodes by 2019.  
As of April 2018, TennCare designed 48 episodes, which are listed on Appendix 4 on page 99. 
On May 30, 2018, TennCare released a statement informing the public that it was temporarily 
pausing the design of new episodes.  TennCare stated that it will not design future episodes in 
order to concentrate on improving and maintaining the episodes already in place and improving 
provider engagement.  At the end of our fieldwork in August 2018, management had not 
restarted expansion efforts. 
 
General Description 
 
Provider payment methodology under the new episodes of care strategy differs from the 
payment methodology under the traditional fee-for-service model.  Under 
episodes of care, providers are reimbursed for services in the same way they 
were in the past.  The episodes of care strategy provides an opportunity to earn 
a bonus or pay a withholding at the end of the performance period.  According 
to TennCare management, episodes of care will save the state money by  
 
 coordinating all healthcare services related to a specific medical condition, procedure, 
or disability during the episode’s performance period; 


--- Page 31 ---
 
19 
 assigning a principal accountable provider, also known as a quarterback,
11 who is in 
the best position to ensure members receive quality care from all providers as cost 
efficiently as possible; and 
 rewarding or withholding payments to quarterbacks based on achieving cost 
efficiencies and the quality of services provided during the episode performance 
period.    
 
To coordinate a TennCare member’s care for each healthcare event (episode), a managed 
care organization (MCO) assigns the quarterback associated with the episode.  The quarterback 
can be a physician, a group of physicians, or a facility (such as a hospital or a surgery center) that 
helps coordinate the member’s care with the different providers before, during, and after a 
procedure to ensure the member receives all needed care.   
 
MCOs provide the quarterbacks with quarterly, interim, and final performance reports, 
which detail the members’ cost of services for the episode and whether the services met the 
episode’s quality metrics
12 throughout the performance period, which is based on calendar year.  
These reports contain the following information: 
 
 an overall summary of the applicable episodes; 
 a performance summary showing the quarterback’s payment calculations;  
 an episode summary showing the total number of episodes treated and the number of 
episodes that were included or excluded in the report (for example, the member 
passed away or the episode diagnosis was not in the performance period); 
 quality and cost details, which compare the quarterback’s performance to all other 
providers, and episode costs to the average costs of all providers; and  
 a detailed list of excluded episodes. 
 
Payment Methodology for Episodes 
 
Although the episodes of care strategy introduces a new payment incentive, providers 
will continue to be paid their negotiated payment regardless of the cost efficiencies and quality 
outcome of the episode event.  The payment is based on the contract arrangement between 
TennCare and the MCOs, which accept a set per member per month (capitation) payment.  In 
addition to these payments, TennCare management created performance periods (defined as a 
calendar year) to capture the episode claims data in order to evaluate the new payment incentives 
for the quarterbacks.  MCOs will analyze the claims data during a performance period so that 
they can establish whether quarterbacks fall within defined thresholds: acceptable, 
commendable, and gain sharing limit.   
 
                                                          
11 In this report, the term “quarterback” refers to the provider who is responsible for coordinating the member’s care 
during the episode.  The term “provider” refers to the individual who provides traditional medical care to the 
member. 
12 According to TennCare management, each episode has its own set of quality metrics that are selected based on 
clinical input and practice guidelines. 


--- Page 32 ---
 
20 
TennCare sets the acceptable threshold, the MCOs set the commendable threshold, and 
the gain sharing limit threshold is defined by TennCare and set by the MCO.  These thresholds 
establish the quarterback’s episode payment: a gain sharing payment (gain sharing bonus); risk 
sharing payment (risk sharing withholding); or no change in payment (no gain sharing bonus or 
no risk sharing withholding).   
 
See Figure 1 for an illustration of the different thresholds and their effect on quarterback 
payments for the 2016 performance period. 
 


--- Page 33 ---
 
21 
Figure 1 
2016 Thresholds for Episode Payments
13 
 
High Cost 
 
  
TennCare sets the acceptable threshold so that quarterbacks 
with the highest average annual cost for each episode are 
assessed a withholding.  If a quarterback’s average episode 
costs exceed TennCare’s acceptable threshold, the quarterback 
is assessed a risk sharing withholding.     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Acceptable Threshold 
 
 
  
Average Cost 
 
If the quarterback’s average episode costs fall between 
TennCare’s acceptable threshold and the MCO’s 
commendable threshold, the quarterback has no change in 
payment. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
Low Cost 
 
 
 
Commendable Threshold 
 
If average episode costs are below the MCO’s commendable 
threshold, the quarterback is eligible to receive a gain sharing 
bonus if it meets all the applicable quality metrics. 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Gain Sharing Limit
14 
 
 
 
  
Lower Cost 
  
TennCare sets the gain sharing limit by defining a list of 
required services for each episode.  From this list, the MCO 
identifies the five lowest cost episodes to determine the 
average cost.  If the average cost is lower than the gain sharing 
limit, a quarterback will share cost savings but only the 
amount that is above the gain sharing limit. 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
 
                                                          
13 See Appendix 5 on page 101 for the 2018 episodes of care changes to the thresholds and payment calculations.  
14 A quarterback can receive a bonus either by being between the commendable threshold and meeting all the 
applicable quality metrics or by being above the gain sharing limit. 


--- Page 34 ---
 
22 
TennCare’s 2016 Analysis of Episode Bonus and Withholding Results 
 
To determine the total amount of quarterbacks’ gain sharing bonuses and risk sharing 
withholdings per MCO, we reviewed TennCare’s 2016 episodes results by MCO.  The first wave 
of episodes (perinatal, asthma acute exacerbation, and total joint replacement—hip and knee) 
was designed in 2013 and implemented in 2015, and the second wave of episodes (screening and 
surveillance colonoscopy; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease acute exacerbation; outpatient 
and non-acute inpatient cholecystectomy; acute percutaneous coronary intervention; and non-
acute percutaneous coronary intervention) was designed in 2014 and implemented in 2016.  Our 
results showed that risk sharing withholdings exceeded gain sharing bonuses for episodes in both 
the first and second waves.  In summer 2017, TennCare decided to make a one-time adjustment 
to the risk sharing withholdings because they were significantly higher than the gain sharing 
bonuses.  For this reason, quarterbacks only had to pay one-third of the risk sharing withholding, 
rather than the entire amount.  See Table 5 for the 2016 episode results, which includes the one-
time risk sharing adjustment. 
 
Table 5 
2016 Episode Results 
Results Before and After the One-time 1/3 Adjustment 
 
 
Risk Sharing Withholding 
 
Gain Sharing 
Bonus 
Before One-time 
Adjustment 
After One-time 
Adjustment 
Total Results 
$936,893 
($1,627,179) 
($542,393) 
      Source: TennCare management. 
 
 
TennCare management stated that it expects episodes in the first year of implementation 
to have the bonuses equal withholdings; however, results can vary based on quarterback 
performance.  TennCare also has annual stakeholder feedback sessions, where providers come 
together to discuss what went well or did not go well for an episode.  TennCare reviews this 
feedback to determine if any changes need to be made. 
 
Provider Education 
 
According to TennCare and MCO management, they are both responsible for educating 
TennCare providers about episodes of care and how this new payment model effects the 
providers’ payments.  TennCare provided us with  
 
 an Introduction to Episodes of Care in Tennessee PowerPoint presentation;  
 a sample provider report;  
 the Guide to Reading Your Episode of Care Report; and  
 the 2016 Stakeholder Feedback Session memo, which discussed the changes 
providers wanted and if those changes were accepted or not.   
 
Each MCO provided us some examples of the different education methods used:   


--- Page 35 ---
 
23 
 Amerigroup provided Question and Answers (Q&As); 
 BlueCare provided a link to the episodes of care section on TennCare’s website, 
newsletters, and emails to providers; and  
 UnitedHealthcare provided in-person and telephone support.   
 
The MCOs also help providers access their episode reports, review the quality metrics to ensure 
providers are meeting goals, and/or review costs to see if improvements can be made. 
 
Monitoring of Episodes 
 
 
According to TennCare management, it has contracted with three 
vendors to assist them with monitoring episodes of care.  We focused our 
review on DXC Technology
15 and the Tennessee Department of Commerce 
and Insurance (TDCI).   
 
DXC Technology is responsible for testing the algorithm
16 for the 
new episodes using MCOs’ claims against TennCare’s encounter data (similar to claims) before 
implementing an episode to determine if the current claims information is sufficient to properly 
analyze episodes for cost and quality after implementation.  DXC tests new episodes based on 
claims data and tests existing episodes to determine if the episodes are working as intended. 
 
TDCI is responsible for providing financial and compliance oversight of TennCare’s 
MCOs. TDCI’s TennCare Oversight Division does a quarterly review of episodes after 
implementation by selecting 25 TennCare members’ claim information from each MCO to 
determine if the episode mechanics are working correctly.  For example, the trigger is the event, 
like a diagnosis, that initiates the episode.  The episode trigger logic can include services, such as 
diagnostic imaging, procedures, and rehab, which include three different points in time:  
 
 before (pre-trigger window);  
 during (trigger window); and  
 after (post-trigger window) the procedure (see Appendix 6 on page 102 for an 
example of the different trigger windows involving the perinatal episode).   
 
The risk adjustment factor is a score assigned to a member based on factors such as, but 
not limited to, gender, age, and medical conditions.  TDCI examiners also review a sample of 
episode exclusions to determine if the MCOs correctly excluded them from counting against the 
provider in the episode payment calculations and quality metrics.   
 
 
                                                          
15 According to DXC Technology’s website, it is an independent, end-to-end Information Technology services 
company. 
16 DXC Technology’s algorithm is an automated program based on a defined set of rules (e.g., include or exclude a 
member in the episode and the specific claim information needed to determine if quality metrics were met) that are 
used to design a new episode.   


--- Page 36 ---
 
24 
Audit Results  
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s episodes of care strategy for payment reform positively 
change the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee?  
 
Conclusion: 
Based on our review of vendor contracts, monitoring documents, quarterback 
reports, budgets, and cost savings calculations, we are not able to determine 
the impact of this strategy and we recommend that TennCare should 
 
 sufficiently support actual cost savings for the episodes of care 
strategy; and  
 fully document and implement a formal monitoring plan to ensure 
MCOs are carrying out their responsibilities for the episodes of care 
strategy (see Finding 2). 
 
Furthermore, TennCare and the MCOs should provide additional educational 
opportunities to providers about episodes of care (see Observation 1). 
 
 
Finding 2 – TennCare could not provide sufficient documentation to support actual cost 
savings, did not set clear vendor contract expectations, and did not fully document and 
implement a formal monitoring plan, which calls into question whether the episodes of care 
strategy is positively changing the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee 
 
 
The success of TennCare’s health care cost-savings initiative and payment reform 
requires management to effectively analyze and document the actual costs and make 
determinations and adjustments to achieve savings.  Furthermore, TennCare must formally 
define expectations in vendor contracts for monitoring the episodes of care strategy, and 
management must ensure all parties fulfill those responsibilities under the new health care 
strategy.   
 
Based on our discussions with management and our review of vendor contracts, 
monitoring documents, provider reports, budgets, and estimated cost savings calculations, we 
determined the following.  
 
TennCare Could Not Provide Sufficient Documentation to Support Cost Savings Claims 
 
In the state’s budget for fiscal years 2015 and 2016, TennCare’s budget was reduced by 
$1.5 million and $10 million, respectively, to account for projected future savings related to 
episodes of care.  We requested the evidence to support these projections, but 
management did not document how these projections were developed.  Because 
management could not provide sufficient supporting documentation, we could not 
verify the accuracy of management’s statements regarding savings.  Furthermore, 
management stated that it did not have support for these numbers because the reductions were 
based on projections for the volume of services related to the episode that would be in place in 


--- Page 37 ---
 
25 
the future, instead of actual annual savings.  At the time annual budgets were prepared, TennCare 
had just begun implementing episodes of care. 
 
Based on discussions with and review of the documentation provided by TennCare’s 
Director of Strategic Planning and Innovation, he estimated cost savings of approximately $14.5 
million for the 2016 episodes of care.  We repeatedly asked for an explanation of the underlying 
data used in the cost savings calculation in order to determine if cost savings was achieved, 
which included the formula used to perform the calculation.  We ended fieldwork on September 
30, 2018.  Management provided the actual, formula-based calculation on November 8, 2018, the 
date of the audit’s field exit conference.  Because we received the calculation at that time, we 
could not determine if cost savings was achieved without the calculation’s underlying data.  
 
TennCare Did Not Set Clear Contract Expectations and Did Not Document and Implement a 
Formal Monitoring Plan 
 
Monitoring of New Episodes 
 
TennCare contracted with DXC Technology to test the algorithm for the new episodes 
using both managed care organizations’ (MCO) claims and TennCare’s encounter data.  We 
reviewed this contract and found that TennCare did not include specific contract terms or 
requirements to direct DXC Technology as to how to test the design of each episode, including 
criteria DXC Technology should use to evaluate and conclude on the quality assessment for an 
episode.  The contract states,  
 
Strengthen reporting of Episodes of Care to support the design of episode 
incentives and reward high-quality care, promote the use of clinical pathways and 
evidence-based guidelines, encourage coordination, and reduce ineffective and/or 
inappropriate care. 
 
Based on our discussions with TennCare management, DXC Technology continually 
tests claims to determine if episode data is sufficient to measure costs and quality until such time 
that TennCare approves the quality assessments.
17  As of August 9, 2018, TennCare approved 14 
of 48 episodes’ quality assessments.  We reviewed DXC’s analysis for 4 of 14 approved episodes 
(total joint replacement, perinatal, asthma, and ADHD) to determine if the quality assessments 
were met.  We reviewed evidence, such as emails, that showed TennCare management and DXC 
Technology discussed the results of DXC’s analysis; however, we were not able to determine 
TennCare management’s basis for approving the episodes’ quality assessments when DXC’s 
analysis showed variances.  In other words, TennCare did not have a formal process to describe 
how it evaluated variances once they were identified or how it ultimately determined when to 
accept or reject a variance.   
  
At the end of audit fieldwork, we found that for the remaining 34 unapproved episodes 
awaiting quality assessments, DXC was actively reviewing 8 episodes and had not yet started its 
                                                          
17 According to TennCare management, DXC Technology performs a quality assessment by taking TennCare’s 
claims data and each MCO’s claims data and performing a comparison to identify any outliers in certain dimensions 
(e.g., number of valid episodes, number of valid quarterbacks, and certain quality metrics depending on the episode). 


--- Page 38 ---
 
26 
review of 26 episodes.  Given the delay in the monitoring reviews, TennCare has not ensured the 
episodes of care are working as designed.  During our discussions with the Director of Strategic 
Planning and Innovation, he stated that it takes time and sufficient resources from TennCare and 
DXC Technology to perform the quality assessments.  
 
In addition, we determined that TennCare management had not developed any plans to 
perform ongoing testing of existing approved episodes; thus, TennCare may be at risk of future 
unforeseen and unacceptable changes in an episode.    
 
Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance’s Monitoring Efforts 
 
TennCare’s contract with the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance’s 
(TDCI) did not include language to examine MCOs’ episodes of care procedures, and TDCI used 
a minimal sample selection methodology.  Based on communication provided 
from the MCOs, the MCOs monitor the providers on a quarterly basis.  They 
produce quarterly reports of the providers’ cost and quality of care in an episode 
and submit them to TennCare and TDCI’s TennCare Oversight Division.  
TennCare contracts with TCDI to provide financial and compliance oversight of 
its MCOs.  Although the contract does not require TDCI to examine MCOs’ 
episodes of care procedures, TDCI has incorporated this review into its scope of work for 
TennCare.  Based on discussions with TDCI, the TennCare oversight examiners completed a 
review of the 2016-implemented episodes in August 2017 and completed a review of the 2017-
implemented episodes in August 2018.      
 
In the August 2018 review, TDCI examiners also reviewed a sample of gain sharing 
bonuses and risk sharing payments to ensure MCOs paid the bonuses and payments from the 
2017-implemented episodes.  At the time of the August 2017 review, TDCI reviewed less than 
1% of approximately 1,400 provider reports for the 2016-implemented episodes.  To provide a 
perspective on the TDCI review, each provider report can consist of a wide range of TennCare 
members, depending on the type of episode.    
 
TDCI management stated that it developed its sample methodology by considering the 
limited staff resources as well as issues identified after analyzing its sample.  As such, examiners 
stated they did not limit themselves to a 1% sample entirely, and if they did find an item that 
presented itself as a risk requiring further attention, they expanded their sample to further 
examine the risk; however, we did not see evidence that TDCI expanded the sample as stated to 
fully evaluate these concerns. 
 
Criteria 
 
According to “State Monitoring Requirements,” Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, 
Part 438, Section 66,  
 
 
(a) General Requirement. The State agency must have in effect a monitoring 
system for all managed care programs. 
 


--- Page 39 ---
 
27 
(b) The State’s system must address all aspects of the managed care program, 
including the performance of each MCO . . .  in at least the following areas:  
Administration and management[;] . . . Claims management[;] . . . [and] 
Quality improvement.  
 
According to Section 16 of the U.S. Government Accountability Office’s Standards for 
Internal Control in the Federal Government (Green Book), “Monitoring Overview,” 
 
monitoring of the internal control system is essential in helping internal control 
remain aligned with changing objectives, environment, laws, resources, and risks.  
Internal control monitoring assesses the quality of performance over time. 
 
Furthermore, according to Section 6.06 of the Green Book, 
 
Management evaluates and, if necessary, revises defined objectives so that they 
are consistent with these requirements and expectations.  This consistency enables 
management to identify and analyze risks associated with achieving the defined 
objectives. 
 
Finally, Section 3.09 of the Green Book states, “Management develops and maintains 
documentation of its internal control system.” 
 
Effect 
 
The episodes of care strategy is one of three strategies TennCare implemented to save the 
state money.  By not documenting actual cost savings and by not designing and documenting 
effective monitoring to ensure the strategy is operating as intended and to identify any needed 
changes to ensure it is operating as intended, management cannot determine if this strategy is 
positively changing the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee, which ultimately affects 
TennCare members. 
 
Recommendation 
 
TennCare should develop a process to determine actual cost savings and maintain the 
documentation that supports the analysis. 
 
TennCare management should document and implement a formal monitoring plan to 
ensure vendors are carrying out their responsibilities of the episodes of care strategy, including 
amending the contracts with DXC Technology and the Department of Commerce and Insurance 
to ensure the contracts clearly define the contractors’ monitoring responsibilities for the episodes 
of care strategy and address the issues noted in this finding.  In addition, TennCare management 
should implement a schedule to continue testing episodes even after the quality assessments are 
approved. 
 
 


--- Page 40 ---
 
28 
Management’s Comment 
 
We do not concur.  
 
TennCare has documented episodes savings 
 
The auditors assert that TennCare could not provide sufficient documentation of episodes 
savings.  We certainly did provide documentation of savings to the auditors, and went over those 
documents in detail on August 9 and August 28.  During these meetings, we requested that the 
auditors tell us if they were unsatisfied by any of the materials we provided.  We did not receive 
any indication from the auditors that the documents we provided were not acceptable to them 
until we received the draft audit report and met with the auditors in the field exit conference.  We 
sent a new table to them the same day as the exit conference.  This new table was identical to 
what we had provided to them previously, except for additional columns showing the 
calculations and formulas.  
 
We have shared and discussed the same table we initially provided to the auditors 
showing the calculation of episodes savings on our website, in legislative hearings, and in many 
meetings with stakeholders.  
 
Our method for calculating savings is straightforward.  We compare the average risk-
adjusted episode cost after episodes have been implemented with the average risk-adjusted 
episode cost before episodes were implemented, with an adjustment for medical inflation.  We 
regret that the communication between us and the auditors did not lead to a better conversation 
about the results of episodes.  
 
TennCare’s scopes of work allow for effective monitoring of episodes 
 
The auditors would like TennCare’s scope of work with its vendor DXC and with TDCI 
to have more formal descriptions of the quality assurance processes they are carrying out, but the 
auditors do not find anything lacking in these processes.  In fact the processes are functioning 
well to achieve their goals.  DXC performs a quality assurance process where it runs the episodes 
algorithm and compares the results to the results from the MCOs.  This process is intended to 
catch errors in algorithm programming.  Starting in 2015, TennCare worked with TDCI to 
review each MCO’s calculation of risk adjustment scores in episodes reports.  Stakeholders were 
particularly concerned about the risk adjustment scores being calculated correctly and so TDCI’s 
review was a way to address those concerns.  As the auditors note, the work of TDCI has 
actually expanded beyond that initial scope to a review of many aspects of episodes reports.  
 
The finding incorrectly implies that there has not been a quality assurance review of some 
episodes.  In fact all episodes are reviewed prior to the start of the first preview report.  In 
addition, many episodes have been reviewed a second time as part of a rolling process of review.  
We supplied the auditors with the date that each episode was reviewed on August 9.  The finding 
should make clear that each episode has received at least one quality assurance review. 
 


--- Page 41 ---
 
29 
We agree with the auditors that TennCare should create a schedule of future quality 
assurance reviews of episodes by DXC, and have set that schedule since our discussion with the 
auditors. 
 
The auditors imply that they want TDCI to review more episodes, but they do not state 
what their basis is for implying that the current amount of review is not enough or what amount 
of review would satisfy them.  The auditors state that they did not see evidence that TDCI 
expanded its sample when an item required further attention.  In fact, TDCI did not expand the 
sample because no deficiencies were found during the testing period that warranted an 
expansion. 
 
We disagree with the auditor’s recommendation that TennCare add more formal 
descriptions of processes to our agreements with DXC and TDCI.  The current processes are 
working well, and the auditors did not find any problems with the processes.  Further, too much 
specificity would just mean that the agreements would need to be changed every time the 
processes are enhanced.  For example, TDCI is now reviewing much more content in the 
episodes report than the risk adjustment scores that were the initial focus. 
 
Auditor Comment 
 
TennCare Could Not Provide Sufficient Documentation to Support Cost Savings Claims 
 
We asked TennCare management on multiple occasions during audit fieldwork to 
provide us the underlying support for the $14.5 million cost savings achieved under the episodes 
of care strategy.  We expected TennCare to provide specific information, including the costs of 
member services prior to episodes of care implementation, the actual episode costs related to the 
new strategy of care, and the related TennCare members’ claim records, so that we could verify 
TennCare’s calculations of cost savings based on the average episode costs and the total number 
of episodes involved.  Despite our requests, the Director of Strategic Planning and Innovation did 
not provide evidence sufficient to support TennCare’s claim of $14.5 million cost savings. 
 
TennCare Did Not Set Clear Contract Expectations and Did Not Document and Implement a 
Formal Monitoring Plan 
 
In the finding, we did not state that monitoring was inadequate, but that the Director of 
Strategic Planning and Innovation did not provide us with sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
 
 the vendor contracts clearly described episodes-of-care-related services to be 
provided;  
 
 DXC Technology’s quality assessments’ criteria for acceptable variance; and 
 
 that TDCI expanded work based on problems it identified. 
 
 


--- Page 42 ---
 
30 
Observation 1 – TennCare and the managed care organizations should increase their education 
outreach to providers regarding payment calculations, commendable threshold methodology, and 
quality measurements  
 
Education Outreach Methods 
 
During our review of the managed care organizations’ (MCO) 
education outreach methods, we found that the outreach methods fall short.  
The way the methods are written does not explain to providers the bonus 
and withholding methodology, the commendable threshold methodology, or 
how TennCare and the MCOs measure the providers’ performance.  In response, as evidence of 
the MCOs’ educational outreach, TennCare provided us with provider engagement tracking 
spreadsheets for Amerigroup and UnitedHealthcare for quarter 3 of 2017 through quarter 2 of 
2018.  In these spreadsheets, which management provided on paper and in electronic form, we 
found notations of communication between the MCOs and providers concerning questions 
regarding episodes of care, such as how to access their provider reports.  We also found notes 
describing the MCOs’ attempts to reach providers who were unresponsive to initial contact either 
through phone call or email.  BlueCare, however, did not complete these provider engagement 
tracking spreadsheets correctly; therefore, we could not review them.  
 
According to Section 6.06 of the Green Book, 
 
Management evaluates and, if necessary, revises defined objectives so that they 
are consistent with these requirements and expectations.  This consistency enables 
management to identify and analyze risks associated with achieving the defined 
objectives. 
 
Commendable Threshold Methodology 
 
During our review of a sample of 55 annual episodes of care reports that MCOs 
submitted in August 2017, we found that TennCare allowed each MCO to establish its own 
commendable level threshold, which the MCOs use to calculate a gain sharing payment to 
providers.  For example, if a provider had a contract with each MCO, the provider could 
potentially receive different gain sharing payments even though the provider performed the same 
episodic services.  Examples of MCO differences with the commendable threshold for the first- 
and second-episode waves are provided in Table 6.
18   
 
 
                                                          
18 Episodes in the first and second waves include perinatal, asthma acute exacerbation, total joint replacement, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease acute exacerbation, colonoscopy, cholecystectomy, acute percutaneous 
coronary intervention, and non-acute percutaneous coronary intervention. 


--- Page 43 ---
 
31 
Table 6 
2016 Quarterback Report – Episode Waves 1 and 2 
Example of Differences of a Quarterback’s Commendable Threshold  
Average Amount by MCO19 
Quarterback Type 
MCO 
Commendable Threshold 
Average Amount 
Imaging Provider 
MCO 1 
$ 2,750 
MCO 2 
$ 5,000 
MCO 3 
$ 2,750 
 
 
 
Major Regional 
Hospital 
MCO 1 
$    700 
MCO 2 
$ 1,000 
MCO 3 
$    800 
Source: Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance. 
 
We interviewed 15 providers from various locations across Tennessee to assess their 
understanding of episodes of care.  The providers were general surgeons, cardiologists, 
gastroenterologists, obstetricians/gynecologists, and orthopedic surgeons.  Although TennCare 
describes on its website how thresholds are set, the providers expressed concerns about whether 
they were receiving the correct amount of gain sharing bonus or risk sharing withholding.   
 
According to the Title 42, United States Code, Chapter 7, Section 1396a, “A State plan 
for medical assistance must provide such methods and procedures relating to the utilization of, 
and the payment for, care and services available under the plan . . . to assure that payments are 
consistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care.” 
 
According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Centers for Medicare 
and Medicaid Services’ Proposed Rule, page 904,  
 
With regard to value-based purchasing programs, commenters also cautioned to 
balance fair and equitable payment while avoiding payment penalties that mask 
health disparities or discouraging the provision of care to more medically 
complex patients. 
 
Quality Metrics 
 
Based on a review of a sample of 55 annual provider reports issued in August 2017, we 
found providers who are not meeting quality metrics.  For several episodes, TennCare 
established quality metrics that must be met in order for a provider to receive a gain sharing 
bonus.  Based on our discussions with TennCare management, MCOs are responsible for 
reaching out to providers who are not meeting quality metrics, which should be documented on 
the MCOs’ provider engagement tracking sheets.  While we found instances of MCOs discussing 
quality metrics with the providers, the notes on the tracking sheets did not clearly state whether 
                                                          
19 The commendable threshold average amounts in Table 6 is presented for illustrative purposes only.  They do not 
represent real numbers.   


--- Page 44 ---
 
32 
providers failed to meet quality metrics or whether the MCOs discussed the corrective actions so 
the providers could meet them in the future.   
 
In addition, at the end of our fieldwork, we found that 3 of 48 episodes did not have 
quality metrics assigned.  Those episodes are total joint replacement, respiratory infection, and 
esophagogastroduodenoscopy.  By not having quality metrics assigned to all episodes, TennCare 
management cannot determine if providers are giving quality care to its members.  In addition, 
establishing quality metrics is an important part of the episodes of care strategy. 
 
TennCare management stated that the MCOs’ provider engagement tracking sheets 
consisted of typed comments in spreadsheet cells from where the MCOs discussed quality 
metrics with a provider.  However, the spreadsheet did not document the corrective actions 
needed to meet quality metrics in the future or document that all providers who did not meet 
their quality metrics were contacted.  
 
According to the National Quality Forum (NQF)
20   
 
NQF evaluates and endorses tools for standardized performance measurement, 
including: performance measures that assess structure, process, outcomes, and 
patient perceptions of care; preferred practices that suggest a specific process that, 
when executed effectively, lead to improved patient outcomes; and frameworks 
that provide a conceptual approach to organizing practices.  These performance 
standards can be used by institutions, providers, and healthcare consumers to:  
Create reliable, comparative performance information on which consumers can 
rely to make informed decisions about their care; Ensure practitioners and 
provider organizations are held accountable for the quality and efficiency of their 
performance; and Support quality improvement activities. 
 
Quarterback and Provider Discussions 
 
From our interviews with the 15 providers from across Tennessee, the providers also 
expressed the following concerns with episodes of care:  
 
 The quarterback is being held accountable for expenses made for an emergency room 
visit that does not relate to the episode (for example, if a TennCare member who is 
pregnant goes to the emergency room for a sinus infection).  
 The quarterback is being held accountable for postpartum issues when the TennCare 
member has not had any prenatal care. 
 Providers did not understand the way their practice was being measured, and it 
appears unequal. 
 
                                                          
20 The NQF is one of the many organizations working to improve the quality of healthcare in the United States.  
The NQF is a standard-setting organization whose efforts center on evaluating and endorsing standardized 
performance measurement.  The NQF works to improve the quality of American healthcare by infusing daily health 
practices with higher standards and routine measures of how and when patients’ needs are being effectively and 
efficiently met.   


--- Page 45 ---
 
33 
To help increase the quarterbacks’ and providers’ understanding of the episodes of care 
strategy, TennCare and the MCOs should provide additional training or reassess the education 
they are currently providing to determine the effectiveness of the educational outreach.  
Specifically, they should ensure the training thoroughly describes the gain and risk sharing 
calculations, the commendable threshold methodology, and how a provider is measured.  In 
addition, TennCare should ensure BlueCare is completing its provider engagement tracking 
sheets, which document its discussions with providers about episodes of care.  TennCare should 
also periodically review these tracking sheets to determine if training efforts should be revised or 
added. 
 
 
LONG-TERM  SERVICES  AND  SUPPORTS  AND  PRIMARY  CARE  
TRANSFORMATION________________________________________   _____ 
 
Long-Term Services and Supports 
 
TennCare created the Quality Improvement in Long-Term Services and 
Supports (QuILTSS) based on data collected during stakeholder meetings and 
online provider and consumer surveys in 2013 and 2014.  QuILTSS rewards 
providers that improve the member’s care experience and promote a person-centered care 
delivery model, which focuses on what the member wants his or her life to be.  TennCare plans 
to save money with the long-term services and supports strategy by  
 
 having a higher quality of care measured by a quality metrics
21 process through 
QuILTSS, 
 reducing the total cost of care by having better medical technology,  
 decreasing the number of hospitalizations, and  
 decreasing the number of infections.
22 
 
To determine cost savings for the enhanced respiratory care procedures, TennCare 
management tracked expenditures and utilization (units) for fiscal years 2015 through 2017 for 
the following procedures: vent weaning, chronic vent, tracheal suctioning, and secretion 
management.  TennCare management demonstrated that enhanced respiratory care spending 
decreased by 25% from fiscal year 2016 to fiscal year 2017.  See Table 7. 
 
                                                          
21 According to TennCare management, quality metrics for the long-term services and support strategy involve 
standards for measuring quality in the following areas: satisfaction (member, family, and staff); quality of life 
(respectful treatment, member choice, member or family input, and meaningful activities); staffing and competency 
(registered nurse hours per day, certified nurse assistant hours per day, staff retention, consistent staff assignment, 
and staff training); and clinical performance (antipsychotic medication and urinary tract infection). 
22 There are three pieces to the long-term services and support strategy: quality; enhanced respiratory care; and 
workforce development.  For the quality piece, we read the survey results that had positive feedback.  For the 
workforce development piece, we read the training materials and watched a video on the changes to training for the 
direct support staff.  We focused on the enhanced respiratory care piece because it involved direct cost savings and 
improving quality of life. 


--- Page 46 ---
 
34 
Table 7 
Enhanced Respiratory Care Savings
23 
Fiscal Year 2016 to Fiscal Year 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
Primary Care Transformation 
 
According to TennCare management, the primary care transformation 
strategy focuses on the primary care provider promoting the delivery of preventive 
services and managing chronic illnesses over time.  This strategy is based on 
developing an aligned model for care coordination that includes 
 
 patient-centered medical homes (for example, pediatric, adult, and family practices) 
that involve a provider or a group of providers who take ownership to coordinate a 
member’s care;  
 Tennessee Health Link, which is for TennCare members with the highest behavioral 
health needs and involves creating a care team that includes medical and nonmedical 
treatments (such as therapy or a support system); and  
 the care coordination tool, which serves as a centralized database of members’ 
medical information, which allows providers to identify, track, and close gaps in care 
linked to quality measures (for example, schedule a follow-up visit with the primary 
care doctor, obtain needed immunizations, or have a diabetic screening).     
 
TennCare plans to save money with this strategy by 
  
 measuring higher-quality care through a quality metrics process and 
claims data reviews developed by the National Committee for 
Quality Assurance’s Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set;
24 
 reducing the total cost of care by decreasing the use of specialty care through better 
management of chronic conditions and decreasing the use of unnecessary procedures 
and visits (such as emergency room visits) and using more cost-conscious referrals; 
and 
 shifting the system toward more coordination and information sharing.  
 
                                                          
23 We obtained the enhanced respiratory care expenditures and re-performed management’s cost savings calculation 
to verify its accuracy.   
24 According to its website, the National Committee for Quality Assurance measures and accredits health plans.  
The measures include six domains of care: effectiveness of care; access and availability of care; experience of care; 
utilization and risk-adjusted utilization; health plan descriptive information; and measures collected using electronic 
clinical data systems. 
Enhanced Respiratory 
Care 
FY 2016 
Expenditures 
FY 2017 
Expenditures 
Total Spending 
$23,229,090 
$17,377,628 
Cost Savings % 
25% 


--- Page 47 ---
 
35 
Audit Results  
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s long-term services and supports’ payment reform strategy 
positively change the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee? 
 
 
 
Conclusion: 
Based on our review of the spending and data tracking documentation, 
TennCare management demonstrated that enhanced respiratory care 
spending decreased by 25% from fiscal year 2016 to fiscal year 2017. 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s primary care transformation strategy positively change 
the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee? 
 
Conclusion: 
We determined that TennCare began implementing the primary care 
transformation strategy in fall 2016, but management does not have 
enough data available to evaluate the success of its efforts at this time (see 
Observation 2). 
 
 
Observation 2 – TennCare began implementing the primary care transformation strategy in fall 
2016; however, by the end of audit fieldwork, management did not have sufficient data to 
evaluate the strategy’s success  
 
The primary care transformation strategy’s goal is to assist primary care providers in 
promoting higher-quality, team-based primary and behavioral healthcare; improving population 
health; and reducing the cost of care by coordinating with other providers.  This strategy includes  
 
 patient-centered medical homes (PCMH) – TennCare’s three managed care 
organizations launched a statewide aligned PCMH program with 29 organizations
25 
on January 1, 2017;    
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          
25 According to the 2017 TennCare Patient Centered Medical Home: Provider Operating Manual, to be eligible to 
participate as a PCMH, an entity must 
1. 
be a participating TennCare practice with one or more primary care practitioners; 
2. 
have at least 500 attributed TennCare members under a managed care organization;  
3. 
attest to commit to the goals of value-based payments (e.g., increase care coordination, focus on improving quality);  
4. 
designate a PCMH Director to serve as a point of contact; and  
5. commit to following PCMH activities (e.g., participate in two years of practice transformation and support, sign up 
and use the care coordination tool, and share best practices with other organizations in the program). 


--- Page 48 ---
 
36 
 Tennessee Health Link – this program began statewide on 
December 1, 2016, with 21 eligible health link organizations;
26 
and 
 care coordination tool – this online tool rolled out to PCMHs 
and health link providers in February 2017.   
 
To encourage quality and efficiency of care, TennCare management measures provider 
performance against preset quality and efficiency metrics
27 determined by the National 
Committee for Quality Assurance’s Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set.  A 
provider receives a larger payment for services rendered per member based on how well a 
provider performs against these metrics.  
 
At the end of our fieldwork, TennCare was in the process of collecting data to determine 
if the primary care transformation strategy will meet its objective.  Management will use claims 
data to evaluate the cost savings.  While TennCare has completed the first year of 
implementation, providers have up to six months after services are rendered to submit claims.  
Due to this lag, TennCare will not have a full year of data available to evaluate until August 
2018.  Based on discussion with the Director of Strategic Planning and Innovation, TennCare 
does not anticipate seeing a significant change or a large savings in the first year.  In the next 
audit, we will review TennCare’s data collection methodologies and the results of its evaluation. 
                                                          
26 According to the 2017 TennCare Patient Centered Medical Home: Provider Operating Manual, to be eligible to 
participate as a health link organization, an entity must 
1. be a community health center or another type of qualified organization (e.g., mental health clinic);  
2. be in the process of obtaining a stated commitment to collaborate with a TennCare primary care provider 
for each health link location;  
3. commit to adopt the care coordination tool;  
4. have a documented plan to meet CMS e-prescribing requirements within one year of joining;  
5. employ a designated point of contact (Health Link Administrator) and a care team;  
6. have the capability to provide behavioral health services onsite;  
7. be committed to providing training to employees; and  
8. be capable of providing all required health link activities, which are comprehensive care management, care 
coordination, referral to social supports, patient and family support, transitional care, health promotion, and 
population health management.  
27 According to TennCare management, the primary care transformation strategy has five efficiency metrics: causes 
for hospital readmissions, emergency department (ED) visits, inpatient admissions, mental health inpatient 
utilization, and avoidable ED visits.   The quality metrics are different for the three different PCMH types.  For 
example, pediatric practices are measured on well child visits, immunizations, and weight assessments; family 
practices are measured on well visits, immunizations, weight assessments, diabetes care, and asthma management; 
and adult practices are measured on well visits, diabetes care, and weight assessments.   


--- Page 49 ---
 
 
Program Integrity


--- Page 50 ---
 
37 
The federal government considers the Medicaid program vulnerable to improper 
payments due to fraud, waste, abuse, mismanagement, inefficiencies, and ineffectiveness.
28  
Furthermore, Medicaid expenditures account for a significant proportion of state and federal 
budgets, and program spending is projected to increase 66% by 2025.  TennCare is responsible 
for safeguarding the integrity of the state’s Medicaid program to ensure its sustainability for 
beneficiaries and accountability to taxpayers. 
  
We focused our audit work on four areas of program integrity: member eligibility, long-
term care services, provider screening, and non-emergency medical transportation.     
 
 
MEMBER ELIGIBILITY____________________________________________ 
 
In general, TennCare incurs two types of payments on behalf of its members: managed 
care and fee-for-service.  TennCare supports most members through a managed care plan.  Under 
this model, TennCare pays three private managed care organizations a monthly premium, known 
as a capitation payment, to provide medical and behavioral health coverage for members.  
TennCare makes capitation payments regardless of whether a member uses services during the 
month covered by the payment.   
 
Although TennCare serves most members through managed care, some members receive 
medical care on a fee-for-service basis.  In the fee-for-service model, members still belong to a 
managed care plan, but TennCare reimburses the plan for services rendered instead of making 
monthly capitation payments.  TennCare also contracts with two benefit management companies 
to coordinate members’ prescription coverage, as well as dental coverage for certain eligible 
populations,
29 and reimburses those companies for pharmacy and dental services rendered to 
members. 
 
To avoid improper capitation and fee-for-service payments, TennCare verifies member 
eligibility upon initial application and on an ongoing basis.  At the initial application, TennCare 
determines the applicant’s eligibility based on household and income criteria and also ensures 
the applicants have not already obtained a membership to prevent duplicate memberships.  
TennCare’s ongoing eligibility verification activities include regularly checking for members 
who have lost eligibility or who are duplicate members and recouping overpaid or improper 
capitation payments and fee-for-service claims payments made on behalf of those members.  We 
focused our audit work on TennCare’s processes for detecting and stopping coverage for 
members who are deceased, incarcerated, or who hold multiple active TennCare memberships. 
 
 
                                                          
28 U.S. Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Committees: CMS Has Taken Steps to Address 
Program 
Risks 
but 
Further 
Actions 
Needed 
to 
Strengthen 
Program 
Integrity 
(August 
2018).    
https://www.gao.gov/assets/700/694029.pdf 
29 TennCare members eligible for dental coverage include children and members of the Employment and 
Community First CHOICES program for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. 


--- Page 51 ---
 
38 
Audit Results 
 
1. Audit Objective:  Did TennCare make improper payments for deceased Medicaid 
members?    
 
 
Conclusion: 
Based on data analysis, we determined that TennCare made improper 
payments totaling approximately $17,036 for deceased Medicaid 
members between July 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017 (see Finding 3). 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make improper payments for incarcerated Medicaid 
members?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
Based on data analysis, we determined that TennCare made improper 
payments totaling approximately $628,775 for incarcerated Medicaid 
members between July 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017 (see Finding 3). 
 
3. Audit Objective: 
Did TennCare make duplicate payments for Medicaid members with 
multiple identification numbers? 
 
 
Conclusion:  
Based on data analysis, we identified $60,598 in duplicate payments 
TennCare made between July 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017, for 
Medicaid 
members with 
multiple 
identification 
numbers 
(see 
Finding 3). 
 
 
Finding 3 – TennCare did not recapture improper payments made on behalf of deceased, 
incarcerated, and duplicate members 
 
TennCare did not recoup
30 improper capitation and fee-for-service payments, totaling 
approximately $706,409, that it made on behalf of deceased, incarcerated, and duplicate 
members between July 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017.  According to Title 42, Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR), Part 438, Section 2, overpayments are payments for costs not allowed in the 
Medicaid program and include payments made for ineligible members, such as deceased, 
incarcerated, and duplicate members.  Generally, TennCare must refund the federal share of 
Medicaid overpayments to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Table 8 
summarizes unrecouped improper payments we identified based on our data analysis. 
 
 
                                                          
30 Based on our review of the managed care contracts, TennCare can recoup up to 12 months of capitation payments 
and claims for payments made on behalf of members after their date of death.  For incarcerated members, however, 
the managed care contract and TennCare policies are silent on this issue.   


--- Page 52 ---
 
39 
Table 8 
Unrecouped Improper Capitation and Claim Payments for Ineligible TennCare Members 
July 1, 2016, Through December 31, 2017 
 
Managed Care 
Fee for Service 
400 
Total 
 
Capitation 
 
Medical 
Pharmacy 
 
Dental 
Deceased 
Members 
$4,004 
(estimated)
31 
- 
$12,913 
$119 
$17,036 
Incarcerated 
Members 
$575,230 
(estimated)31 
$3,945 
(estimated)31 
$49,483 
(estimated)31 
$117 
$628,775 
Duplicate 
Members 
$60,598 
- 
- 
- 
$60,598 
Total 
$639,832 
$3,945 
$62,396 
$236 
$706,409 
 
Deceased Members 
 
TennCare Policy 005.045, “Death,” states, “Eligibility for TennCare Medicaid and 
CoverKids will be terminated once an enrollee’s death has been verified.  Advance notice of 
action is not required if [TennCare] has factual information confirming the death of a 
beneficiary.” 
 
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General 
published an audit report in December 2017 that disclosed TennCare made an estimated $2.7 
million in improper capitation payments for deceased members during the period July 1, 2009, 
through March 4, 2016.  In response to this finding, TennCare refined its monthly and quarterly 
death reviews of its member repository, effective April 2017.  The review process compares 
TennCare’s membership repository to the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File to 
identify deceased members.  Upon establishing a member’s death, TennCare terminates coverage 
and recoups improper payments made on behalf of that member.  The unrecouped capitation 
payments we identified occurred before TennCare changed its process in April 2017, but all of 
the unrecouped fee-for-service pharmacy and dental claims we found were for services provided 
after TennCare implemented the new process. 
     
                                                          
31 We identified numerous capitation payments that TennCare made on behalf of deceased and incarcerated 
members, and numerous medical and pharmacy fee-for-service claims paid on behalf of incarcerated members.  We 
tested a sample of payments in each of these categories to determine whether TennCare recouped the improper 
payments.  Based on our sample results, we estimated the total amount of unrecouped payments.  


--- Page 53 ---
 
40 
The Director of Information Systems and the Director of Claim and Encounters explained 
that because TennCare implemented refinements to the review process during our audit scope, 
our capitation results contained items subject to the older and less reliable review.  For the fee-
for-service claims, they noted instances where information from the Death Master File did not 
align with Tennessee Department of Health’s vital statistics records, causing TennCare to 
establish the wrong date or no date of death for an individual.  In those cases, TennCare lacked 
an accurate trigger to terminate coverage timely and recoup improper payments for the 
appropriate timeframe.  As noted in the Office of the Inspector General’s audit report, TennCare 
must identify and resolve inconsistencies in date of death information among its various sources 
of death data.      
 
Incarcerated Members 
 
TennCare Policy 200.112, “Eligibility of Inmates of Public Institutions,” stipulates, 
“Applicants/enrollees involuntarily confined in a public institution are placed in a temporary 
suspended status to prevent inappropriate payments.”  Furthermore, 42 CFR 431.213(c) exempts 
state Medicaid agencies from providing advance notice to members prior to stopping coverage if 
the member is incarcerated and is no longer eligible for services. 
 
TennCare’s policy is to suspend members who have been incarcerated for more than 90 
days, rather than to terminate benefits entirely.  TennCare receives incarceration data from the 
Tennessee Department of Correction and a private contractor.  If the sources report conflicting 
information about a member, TennCare’s Eligibility Audit and Compliance Division must 
investigate further to resolve the discrepancy.  TennCare suspends membership based on the first 
piece of incarceration data it receives from either of the sources.  
 
The data TennCare received from the Department of Correction and from the private 
contractor did not always match what the Department of Correction reported to the auditors.  
Furthermore, TennCare did not always recoup improper payments made on behalf of 
incarcerated members because management believes that TennCare must furnish advance notice 
prior to suspending a member’s benefits.  Federal regulations, however, exempt state Medicaid 
agencies from this requirement if the suspension is due to the member’s incarceration. 
 
Duplicate Members 
 
Under TennCare Policy 200.020, “Prohibition Against Concurrent Receipt of Benefits,” 
individuals are “prohibited from receiving Medicaid from two or more state programs and from 
two or more Tennessee Medicaid categories simultaneously,” except under limited 
circumstances.  TennCare uses an enrollee identification process to prevent creating duplicate 
individuals in its membership repository.  TennCare also employs the same monthly and 
quarterly review process to identify duplicate memberships and deceased members.  The 
Director of Information Systems explained that TennCare refined its monthly and quarterly 
duplicate review process in April 2017 to capture more months of improper payments.  Under 
the redesigned process, TennCare’s monthly review searches up to nine months of improper 
payments, and the quarterly review searches up to five years.  All but nine of the unrecouped 


--- Page 54 ---
 
41 
duplicate capitation payments we identified occurred before TennCare changed its process in 
April 2017. 
 
 
TennCare is entrusted with a limited public budget to serve the healthcare needs of low-
income, elderly, and disabled Tennesseans.  Improper payments waste taxpayers’ money and 
diminish TennCare’s capacity to serve its target population.  The impact of these losses 
magnifies as TennCare’s enrollment continues to grow. 
 
Recommendation 
 
Overall Recommendation 
 
TennCare should recoup improper payments identified through this analysis and return 
the federal share to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  TennCare should 
investigate providers who billed for services that took place after a member’s date of death or 
during a member’s incarceration to determine if fraud occurred.   
 
Deceased Members 
 
TennCare should evaluate its current process for identifying deceased individuals and 
consider supplementing or corroborating Master Death File information with vital statistics data 
compiled by the Tennessee Department of Health.   
 
Incarcerated Members 
 
TennCare should work with the Tennessee Department of Correction and its 
incarceration data contractor to establish a more effective process for identifying and verifying 
TennCare members who are incarcerated and suspending those members immediately.  
TennCare should also establish a process for retroactively recouping any payments made on 
behalf of the incarcerated TennCare members, as it does for duplicate members and deceased 
individuals.  
 
Duplicate Members 
 
TennCare should continue to use its duplicate member check upon initial application and 
the monthly and quarterly review processes to identify improper payments made on behalf of 
members with multiple TennCare identification numbers. 
 
Management’s Comment 
 
We concur in part.  We agree with the portion of the finding dealing with fee-for-service 
claims noted as issues for deceased members.  However, we do not agree with the portion of the 
finding dealing with capitation payments noted as issues for deceased members, nor do we agree 
with the issues noted for incarcerated or duplicate members.  
 
 


--- Page 55 ---
 
42 
Deceased Members 
 
TennCare receives a monthly file from the Department of Health’s Vital Statistics, which 
contains date of death information.  The data is then run through TennCare’s seven match criteria 
to identify exact matches in TennCare’s Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS), 
which systematically loads the Vital Statistics date of death.  The MMIS also reports suspect 
matches, which are manually reviewed, and if verified through the Social Security 
Administration’s (SSA) On Line Query (SOLQ) system, the date of death is manually uploaded 
to the MMIS.  As a secondary source to identify date of death information, TennCare has access 
to the SSA’s Limited Death Master File (DMF) through a subscription with the U.S. Department 
of Commerce, National Technical Institute Service (NTIS).  Matches from this monthly process 
with TennCare’s MMIS eligibility data are reported and reviewed through SOLQ, and if verified 
through SSA’s SOLQ, the date of death is manually updated to the MMIS.   
 
Regarding the improper payments noted by the Comptroller’s Office on behalf of 
deceased enrollees: 
 
Capitation payments – We do not concur with this payment being an issue.  Our MCO 
capitation process performs a monthly nine-month lookback as well as a quarterly five-year 
lookback to determine if payments were made for deceased enrollees and takes action to recoup 
such payments, when necessary.  Only one capitation issue was noted by the auditors, and this 
payment was recovered in line with our normal business process. 
 
Fee-for-service claims – We concur with this portion of the finding.  One dental claim 
and one DCS claim were paid by TennCare before the date of death was uploaded in our MMIS 
but were not subsequently recouped prior to audit.  These claims have since been voided, and 
new processes have been implemented both within TennCare and with our dental benefits 
manager (DBM) to prevent these situations from recurring.  After investigating the pharmacy 
claims provided to us by the auditors, TennCare noted that the pharmacy benefits manager 
(PBM) was deviating at times from the clear protocols we require that they follow for identifying 
and recouping claims paid after the date of death.  The result was a lack of uniformity regarding 
both recoupment of funds and referral to the state Office of Inspector General.  TennCare has 
since issued a directive to the PBM to research the claims noted in this finding as well as ensure 
they are in full compliance going forward. 
 
Incarcerated Members 
 
We do not concur.  In accordance with TennCare policy, upon receiving information that 
indicates a member may be incarcerated, TennCare sends a 10-day advance notice informing the 
member that their benefits will be placed in suspended status unless the member files an appeal 
to dispute the information TennCare received.  Of the numerous claims cited by the 
Comptroller’s Office as being paid in error, only one crossover claim was paid while the enrollee 
was in a suspended status, and that claim has since been recouped.  The business rule for this 
type of claim was originally coded to not pay crossover claims for incarcerated enrollees, but a 
defect was introduced by a work request in 2017.  This defect was corrected in production on 


--- Page 56 ---
 
43 
July 24, 2018, and future crossover claims will not be paid if a member is in a suspended 
eligibility status.   
 
The auditors cite the other claims as improper payments because they do not think 
TennCare should give enrollees a 10-day advance notice that their coverage is being suspended.  
We respectfully disagree with the auditors, as federal language allows the state to choose not to 
send advance notice when a beneficiary has been admitted to a correctional institution, but it 
does not require it.  We are well within federal guidelines in administering this aspect of the 
program as we do and believe our approach is prudent and appropriate given concerns regarding 
incarceration data quality and due process protections for our enrollees.   
 
We will continue to encourage improvements in correctional data quality, though we 
have no direct control over the collection of this data, and we will consider changes to the 
process at some point in the future if we develop greater confidence in the quality of the data.    
 
Duplicate Members 
 
We do not concur.  TennCare receives eligibility data from multiple sources, and it takes 
time to process changes to the MMIS eligibility data and match the criteria to determine if 
enrollees are truly duplicates or not.  Our MCO capitation process performs a monthly nine-
month lookback as well as a quarterly five-year lookback to determine if we made improper 
payments for duplicate enrollees and take corrective action, if necessary.  Enrollees fall into one 
of three categories:  
 
(1) They are automatically linked through a seven match criteria.  Any capitation 
payments made for the inactive link are recouped, if necessary, through our monthly 
capitation cycle.  The active link is not recouped because there is no need to. 
(2) If the enrollees cannot be automatically linked through the seven match criteria, they 
go into a queue to be manually processed.  If determined that the enrollee is a 
duplicate, then we recover capitation payments through the lookback, if necessary. 
(3) If the manual process determines that the enrollees are truly separate people, then 
everything remains the same with regard to these enrollees. 
 
All of these issues presented by the auditors were recovered through our normal process.  
None of these duplicate enrollees were unaccounted for prior to the auditor’s notification.  We 
either already recouped the capitation payment or the capitation payment was already scheduled 
to be recouped prior to audit notification.  Therefore, we do not believe this is an issue. 
 
Auditor Comment 
 
Deceased Members 
 
TennCare did not recoup the deceased member’s capitation payment until after the 
auditors brought this overpayment to management’s attention and, as such, the recoupment was 
not part of the normal business process. 
 


--- Page 57 ---
 
44 
Incarcerated Members 
 
Our finding clearly states our condition is that management has paid benefits for 
incarcerated members and has not recouped the overpayments when it should have.  We have no 
issue with TennCare providing advance notice to the members even though this notice is not 
federally required.  In this situation, TennCare did not retroactively recover payments made for 
members while incarcerated.  Payments for incarcerated individuals are improper because their 
health care needs are already covered by a correctional institution.   
 
Duplicate Members 
 
TennCare did not recoup the duplicate capitation payments until the date the auditors 
brought these items to management’s attention.  These capitation payments ranged from seven 
months to two years old as of the date we brought the issue to management’s attention, which 
suggests to us that the normal process did not work sufficiently to promptly identify and recover 
overpayments. 
 
 
LONG-TERM CARE SERVICES____________________                                 _ 
 
TennCare administers programs to provide long-term services and supports to targeted 
member populations.  These programs include 
 
 CHOICES, a program of nursing facility care and home- and community-based 
services for adults age 21 and older with a physical disability and seniors age 65 and 
older; and 
 Employment and Community First (ECF) CHOICES, a program with an 
employment and independent community living focus for members of any age who 
have an intellectual or developmental disability.
32 
 
As of August 31, 2018, the CHOICES program had 12,312 members in home- and 
community-based services, and the ECF CHOICES program had 2,548 members.  
 
 
Members enrolled in CHOICES and ECF CHOICES have access to home-based personal 
care and attendant care services.  These services assist the member with activities of daily living, 
such as eating, bathing, and getting dressed.  TennCare limits personal care to a maximum of 
four hours per visit and at least four hours between each visit, whereas members may use 
attendant care for longer than four hours at a time and with fewer than four hours between each 
visit.  TennCare’s managed care organizations contract with private providers to deliver the 
personal care and attendant care services to members.  Providers are responsible for employing 
and scheduling care workers, and for billing managed care organizations for services furnished.  
                                                          
32 A developmental disability is a physical and/or mental impairment that begins before age 22 and inhibits an 
individual’s capacity to perform activities of daily living.  An intellectual disability manifests before age 18 and is 
characterized by an intelligence quotient (IQ) of 70 or below, along with significant limitations in the ability to adapt 
and carry on everyday life activities. 


--- Page 58 ---
 
45 
Home-based care service delivery presents unique program integrity challenges.  A 
November 2016 report released by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) classified 
in-home personal care services as high risk for Medicaid improper payments due to providers 
billing for services not rendered.  The GAO also noted that certain home care situations could 
jeopardize members’ safety, such as a personal care worker missing a scheduled appointment.  
 
To monitor home-based care services, since 2011 TennCare has required its managed 
care contractors (MCCs) to use an electronic visit verification system to record when care 
workers start and finish providing care at a member’s residence.  Upon arriving at a member’s 
home, workers must check in to the system using a dedicated tablet kept in the member’s home, 
or via an application on the worker’s own mobile phone.  Upon leaving, the worker must check 
out the same way.  The electronic visit verification system captures the date, time, and the 
worker’s geographic location upon check-in and check-out (see example in Figure 2). 
 
Figure 2 
Example of Home Care Visit Date, Time, and Location Data Captured by Electronic Visit 
Verification System 
 
Source: Auditor-prepared based on MCCs’ electronic visit verification system records. 
 
TennCare’s MCCs have adopted procedures to address contingencies such as technical 
malfunctions or missed visits.  If a worker cannot access a tablet or mobile phone application, he 
or she may call a hotline to check in and check out.  If that method is also unavailable, the 
worker may prepare a written timesheet and manually key the information into the electronic 
visit verification system at a later date.  If a worker fails to check in for a scheduled visit, the 
system alerts the worker’s employer and the member’s MCC to engage a backup plan of care for 
the member.  
 
Providers of personal and attendant care services use data from the electronic visit 
verification system to claim payment from the MCCs for services rendered.  In addition, 
TennCare requires its MCCs to use data from the system to monitor and report on whether 
members received these services.  
 
Check in on February 20, 2018 at 10:05 AM on tablet 
Member’s home 
Check out on February 20, 2018 at 12:08 PM on tablet 


--- Page 59 ---
 
46 
We focused our audit work on TennCare and its MCCs’ use of this system to oversee in-
home personal care and attendant care services. 
 
Audit Results 
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare ensure the electronic visit verification system was designed to 
mitigate risks relating to members receiving long-term care services?    
 
Conclusion: 
Based on data analysis, we determined that TennCare’s electronic visit 
verification system did not prevent providers from claiming payment for 
services rendered to different members in different locations by the same 
worker at the same time.  We also noted that approximately 30% of records 
were manually entered into the system rather than generated by workers’ 
electronic check-in and check-out activity (see Finding 4). 
 
 
Finding 4 – TennCare did not ensure its managed care contractors established controls to 
prevent improper claims and to ensure that TennCare members received critical long-term 
care services 
 
Based on our analysis of electronic visit verification system records and reports for the 
period July 1, 2016, through March 31, 2018, we found that two managed care contractors 
(MCCs) lacked controls to prevent an individual worker from claiming to care for two different 
members at the same time.  We also noted that for approximately 30% of personal and attendant 
care visits, rather than using the electronic visit verification system check-in and check-out 
process, the providers manually recorded their check-in and check-out times, thus introducing 
greater risks of error and fraud. 
 
Lack of Controls to Prevent Overlapping Claims of Care 
 
 
Two of TennCare’s MCCs’ lacked controls to prevent workers from claiming to care for 
different members at the same time.  We analyzed Amerigroup, BlueCare, and 
UnitedHealthcare’s electronic visit verification personal and attendant care records for the period 
July 1, 2016, through March 31, 2018, to identify potentially overlapping claims, where a worker 
checks in to provide personal or attendant care services to two or more different members at the 
same time, for a duration of 15 minutes
33 or more.   
 
We organized our analysis results into groups of visits to different members with the 
same worker name, date, and time.  We identified 
 
 2,131 groups containing 4,317 potentially overlapping visits in the Amerigroup data; 
and 
                                                          
33 We chose a minimum visit duration of 15 minutes because providers claim payment for personal and attendant 
care visits in increments of 15 minutes. 


--- Page 60 ---
 
47 
 5,485 groups containing 11,768 potentially overlapping visits in the UnitedHealthcare 
data.  
 
Our analysis alone was not sufficient to conclude whether the groups of potentially 
overlapping visits we identified resulted in improper payments.  For example, TennCare permits 
a worker to care for two or more members who share a home in a single visit, if the worker 
prorates the duration of the visit among the members.  In addition, two different workers may 
share the same name, which gives the false appearance of overlapping visits by the same person.  
Consequently, we tested a sample of 60 groups each from Amerigroup and UnitedHealthcare to 
determine whether providers improperly claimed payment for overlapping visits.  Based on our 
testwork, we found  
 
 in 7 of 60 groups tested (12%), Amerigroup providers claimed a total of $899 for 14 
overlapping visits; and 
 in 11 of 60 groups tested (18%), UnitedHealthcare providers claimed a total of $1,687 
for 22 overlapping visits.  
 
Based on our testwork results, we estimated that Amerigroup and UnitedHealthcare 
providers claimed approximately $127,741, in total, for overlapping personal and attendant care 
visits between July 2016 and March 2018.   
 
Pursuant to Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 455, Section 1(a)(2), state 
Medicaid agencies must “have a method to verify whether services reimbursed by Medicaid 
were actually furnished to recipients.”   
 
TennCare’s managed care contract also requires its MCCs to 
 
monitor and use information from the electronic visit verification system to verify 
that services are provided as specified in the plan of care or [person-centered 
support plan], and in accordance with the established schedule, including the 
amount, frequency, duration, and scope of each service, and that services are 
provided by the authorized provider/worker; and to identify and immediately 
address service gaps, including late and missed visits. 
 
The Director of Long-Term Services and Supports explained that Amerigroup and 
UnitedHealthcare have used the same electronic visit verification system vendor since 2015.  
During our audit period, the vendor’s system lacked sufficient business rules to identify and 
reject overlapping claims.  In February 2016, the managed care plans requested system 
enhancements to prevent overlapping visits.  The vendor deployed an enhancement in April 
2016.  In May 2017, the vendor discovered that the enhancement did not always work as 
intended.  According to TennCare’s Chief Information Officer, the vendor tested and deployed a 
fix in May 2018.  We will test the effectiveness of this fix in the next audit, but in the meantime, 
TennCare management should analyze data from Amerigroup’s and UnitedHealthcare’s 
electronic visit verification system to verify that the edit check prevents a worker from checking 
in for two or more members at the same time.   
 


--- Page 61 ---
 
48 
Manually Created Visit Records 
 
 
Our analysis of the managed care plans’ electronic visit verification system data disclosed 
that providers created approximately 30% of personal care and attendant care visit records 
manually rather than electronically through a tablet, mobile phone application, or hotline call.  
Table 9 presents our results of workers’ personal and attendant care visit check-in and check-out 
methods by MCC.  Manual entries are not as reliable as real-time system entries because the 
worker may not accurately and truthfully enter the date, time, and location of rendered services.  
In contrast, when a worker logs in to the system in real-time with a tablet or mobile application, 
the electronic visit verification system automatically captures the date, time, and geographic 
location from the device. 
 
Table 9 
Methods Used to Record Personal and Attendant Visits in the  
Electronic Visit Verification System 
July 2016 Through March 2018 
 
Method Electronically 
Captures Date, Time, and 
Location 
Method Electronically 
Captures Date and 
Time 
No Electronic 
Data Capture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tablet 
Mobile App 
Hotline 
Manual 
Amerigroup 
60% 
4% 
36%* 
BlueCare 
17%* 
53% 
30% 
UnitedHealthcare 
53% 
4% 
14% 
30% 
* Amerigroup’s system classifies records created by hotline and manual entry into a single category.  
Consequently, we could not determine the number of manually created records in Amerigroup’s electronic visit 
verification system.  BlueCare’s system classifies records created by tablet and mobile application into a single 
category.  This is not a concern, however, because the tablet and mobile application methods both collect the 
same check-in and check-out data.     
 
In its managed care contracts, TennCare stipulates that contractors 
 
 
 
shall monitor all manual confirmations to ensure compliance with the [electronic 
visit verification] requirements, overall program integrity and that members are 
receiving necessary services.  At minimum . . . the contractor shall monitor and 
take appropriate remedial action against providers and workers who repeatedly 
fail to use the [electronic visit verification] system when required to do so.  
 
 
The Chief of Long-Term Services and Supports explained that providers create manual 
entries when a worker is not able to automatically attach himself or herself to a specific visit for 
a member with a tablet, mobile application, or hotline for multiple reasons, such as 


--- Page 62 ---
 
49 
 user error,  
 technical error, 
 poor cellular coverage,  
 insufficient training, and  
 lost devices.   
 
When a worker cannot log in to the electronic visit verification system, he or she must 
prepare a manual log of hours worked and services performed.  The worker’s employer enters 
information from the manual log into the electronic visit verification system to claim payment 
for service.  TennCare requires its MCCs to approve all manual entries in the electronic visit 
verification system prior to billing TennCare by reviewing the supporting log.  Based on this 
requirement, we calculated that the MCCs would have had to approve up to 2.8 million manual 
entries between July 2016 through February 2018.   
 
 
Lack of preventative edits in the electronic system resulted in improper payments to 
providers.  In failing to detect and reject overlapping visits, the system allowed providers to 
represent that the same worker was in two places at the same time.  Since this is not possible, 
groups of overlapping visits represent cases where at least one member missed scheduled 
services while the system gave the false impression that all the members received care.  In 
addition, if TennCare does not insist on greater worker compliance with use of the electronic 
visit verification system and a reduction in manually created records, the risk increases that 
dishonest providers will submit false claims supported by fabricated manual entries.  These 
control gaps threaten the safety and well-being of vulnerable TennCare members who rely on 
home care services to live, and the lack of controls increases the risk of improper payments, 
which escalate state and federal costs of providing healthcare to vulnerable populations. 
 
Recommendation 
 
 
TennCare should recoup improper payments identified through this analysis and 
investigate providers who billed the same worker for different members at the same time to 
determine if fraud occurred.  TennCare should test the newly implemented edit check to ensure 
Amerigroup’s and UnitedHealthcare’s electronic visit verification system now prevents the same 
worker from checking in for two or more members at the same time.  TennCare management 
may wish to consider implementing a unique worker identification number to distinguish 
workers with the same name.  A unique identifier would also help TennCare detect providers that 
are recording and billing overlapping visits by the same worker for members of different 
managed care plans.  
 
 
TennCare, in conjunction with the MCCs, should develop and implement strategies for 
encouraging workers to check in and check out of the electronic visit verification system via 
tablet, mobile phone application, or hotline call.   
 
 


--- Page 63 ---
 
50 
Management’s Comment 
 
TennCare concurs in part and does not concur in part. 
   
 
We concur that two MCOs contracted EVV [electronic visit verification] systems failed 
to function as required for a time period during the audit review period, and permitted 
overlapping claims to be billed in certain instances, which resulted in a limited number of claims 
that appear to have been paid in error.  These claims, when extrapolated to the pool identified by 
the auditors as potentially overlapping, represent less than 0.06% of the over 5 million visits 
provided through the three MCOs.     
 
Both Amerigroup and UnitedHealthcare identified that their newly contracted EVV 
system was not performing as required and took steps to correct this deficiency, requesting 
enhancements in February 2016.  While enhancements were made, the MCOs were not aware 
that the requested “fix” still permitted overlapping visits in certain instances—primarily related 
to manual confirmations.  As of May 2018 (prior to identification of this issue by the 
Comptroller’s Office), the problem has been corrected and documentation provided to each 
MCO to demonstrate that their contracted system is working as expected.   
 
We do not concur that the failure of two MCOs’ newly contracted EVV system in 
permitting billing of overlapping claims necessarily means that TennCare members did not 
receive critical long-term care services. There is not sufficient evidence to conclude that 
“Groups of overlapping visits represent cases where at least one member missed scheduled 
services while the system gave the false impression that all the members received care.”  In fact, 
evidence strongly suggests otherwise.  As explained by management to the auditors, when a visit 
is manually confirmed, the worker completes a paper timesheet, which must be signed by the 
worker and the member and uploaded into the EVV system by the provider who keys the 
manual confirmation.  Only then can a manually confirmed visit be paid.  This means that in 
instances where a visit has been manually confirmed but billed and paid, the member signed a 
timesheet stating that the visit in fact occurred.  This could mean that the service was 
provided, but provided at a time other than that specified on the signed timesheet, or that the visit 
was not provided for the full duration of time specified on the timesheet.  When MCOs followed 
up with members regarding these visits, members typically had a hard time remembering past 
dates of service, but members reported that they believed the visits had, in fact, occurred.  
Members did not report failing to receive these services.   
 
TennCare appreciates the auditors’ recommendations and will develop a corrective action 
plan encompassing recovery of these overpayments when appropriate, review of potential fraud, 
and additional testing and validation of the EVV system to confirm functionality to prevent 
overlapping visits.  In addition, we will begin actions to implement a unique worker 
identification number and to reduce the number of manually confirmed visits. 
 
 


--- Page 64 ---
 
51 
PROVIDER SCREENING___________________________________________ 
 
TennCare and its managed care contractors (MCCs) are responsible for TennCare’s 
program integrity efforts—specifically, for ensuring that only eligible healthcare providers are 
permitted to serve TennCare/Medicaid members.  To ensure program integrity and to prevent 
improper payments to ineligible healthcare providers, TennCare and its MCCs conduct initial 
and ongoing provider screenings including 
 
 professional licensure verifications; 
 criminal background checks; and 
 federal database checks, such as the Social Security Administration’s Death Master 
File and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ List of Excluded 
Individuals and Entities.  
 
To ensure sufficient healthcare provider screening, TennCare requires each MCC to 
maintain and submit monthly a provider enrollment file, which contains information on all active 
medical, behavioral, and long-term care service providers enrolled in TennCare’s program.  
These provider enrollment files are the basis of MCCs’ network directories, which members 
depend on to find the eligible TennCare healthcare providers who serve TennCare members.  
TennCare also relies on these files to verify MCCs’ compliance with TennCare’s network 
accessibility standards.
34   
 
We focused our audit work on reviewing TennCare’s MCCs’ active provider enrollment 
files to identify providers with invalid physical service addresses; providers with expired, 
suspended, or revoked licenses; providers excluded from Medicaid participation by the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector; and deceased providers.  
 
Audit Results 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its managed care contractors (MCCs) make improper 
payments to providers with invalid service addresses? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
We identified 56 providers using private mailbox addresses (a potential 
fraud indicator) and 8,606 providers with unknown addresses; we did not 
have enough information to determine whether payments to those 
providers were improper (see Finding 5). 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to providers with 
expired, inactive, or revoked licenses? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
We identified 4,286 physicians with missing, unverifiable, expired, 
inactive, or revoked licenses who were listed as active providers (see 
Finding 5). 
 
                                                          
34 See the Provider Network Accessibility section of this report on page 63. 


--- Page 65 ---
 
52 
3. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to providers 
excluded from participation in Medicaid? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
We did not identify any providers excluded from participation in Medicaid 
in TennCare’s provider network. 
 
4. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to deceased 
providers? 
 
 
Conclusion: 
We identified 44 deceased physicians listed as active providers (see 
Finding 5). 
 
 
Finding 5 – TennCare and its managed care contractors did not detect and terminate 
potentially ineligible providers 
 
 
 
Based on our analysis of TennCare’s managed care contractors’ (MCC) active provider 
enrollment files, we identified 
 
 physicians with missing, expired, inactive, revoked, or unknown medical license 
numbers; 
 deceased physicians; and 
 providers with invalid service addresses. 
 
Invalid and Questionable Licenses  
 
 
 
 
We compared physicians in the MCCs’ provider enrollment files to the Tennessee 
Department of Health’s professional licensure database and identified 4,286 physicians with 
license deficiencies or questionable validity.  Our results consisted of the following: 
 
 531 physicians with no license number recorded 
We manually located all but 23 of these providers’ licenses in the Department of 
Health’s database; however, they were not all licensed physicians.  Instead, some 
were other medical professionals such as nurses.  
 246 physicians with an expired license 
Physician license expiration dates ranged from March 31, 2007, to April 30, 2018.   
 11 physicians with an inactive license 
None of the physicians with an inactive license billed for services to TennCare 
patients during our audit period.  
 1 physician with a revoked license 
This physician did not bill for services to TennCare patients during our audit period. 
 3,474 physicians whose license number did not match the Department of 
Health’s professional licensure database 


--- Page 66 ---
 
53 
Of these, 2,130 physicians’ license numbers on file with the MCCs did not exist in 
the Department of Health’s database.  A further 1,344 physicians’ license numbers 
existed in the Department of Health’s database, but the physician’s name did not 
match the name associated with that license number in the database.  Consequently, 
we could not determine whether these providers were appropriately licensed to 
practice medicine in Tennessee and whether payments to these providers were 
improper. 
 
 
 
Table 10 summarizes the number of invalid and questionable licenses by MCC. 
 
Under Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 455, Section 412, state 
Medicaid agencies must 
 
a) Have a method for verifying that any provider purporting to be licensed in 
accordance with the laws of any State is licensed by such State. 
 
b) Confirm that the provider’s license has not expired and that there are no 
current limitations on the provider’s license.  
 
Under state law, no person may practice medicine in Tennessee unless licensed by the 
state’s Board of Medical Examiners or Board of Osteopathic Examination.  Furthermore, 
TennCare requires its MCCs to ensure that providers are licensed to provide services in the state 
in which they are furnished.  
 
 
 
According to our interviews with the Director of Provider Services, the Assistant Director 
of Provider Services, and the Director of Program Integrity, both TennCare and its MCCs 
monitor provider licensure.  Our results indicate, however, that this monitoring was not effective.  
TennCare’s Program Integrity unit checks the Department of Health’s database monthly to 
identify and terminate TennCare providers with suspended or revoked licenses.  These checks 
failed to identify providers with expired, missing, or unverifiable licensure information.  
 
 
 
Based on analysis of our testwork results, we noted that the MCCs sometimes classified 
non-physician health professionals as physicians, which could hinder their efforts to verify 
physician licenses.  Our analysis also disclosed that the MCCs recorded one license number per 
physician, even if the physician practiced medicine in multiple states.  Without recording all of a 
physician’s license numbers, TennCare and its MCCs lack the data needed to ensure all 
physicians hold active licenses in every state they practice in.  This is important because 
Tennessee borders eight other states, and some providers serve TennCare members at multiple 
practice locations—both in Tennessee and in neighboring states.  Furthermore, a physician may 
have disciplinary actions or restrictions on his or her license in one state yet hold an unrestricted 
license in another state.  By only monitoring one license number per physician, the MCCs are not 
able to identify and respond to license changes in the physician’s other states of practice.        


--- Page 67 ---
 
54 
Table 10 
Missing, Out-of-status, and Unverifiable Physician Licenses by Managed Care Contractor 
 
Amerigroup 
BlueCare 
DentaQuest
35 
TennCare Select 
UnitedHealthcare 
Total 
Totals 
Physicians in provider 
enrollment file 
6,990 
13,755 
988 
13,183 
10,745 
45,661 
Missing 
No license number on file 
162 
147 
- 
142 
80 
531 
No license number on file 
and not found by name in 
the Department of 
Health’s records 
4 
9 
- 
9 
1 
23 
Expired, Inactive, and Revoked 
Expired license 
38 
78 
1 
75 
54 
246 
Inactive license 
2 
4 
- 
4 
1 
11 
Revoked license 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
Unknown 
License number did not 
exist in the Department of 
Health’s records 
185 
109 
7 
627 
1,202 
2,130 
License number existed in 
the Department of 
Health’s records, but the 
name did not match 
225 
177 
4 
197 
741 
1,344 
Source: Auditor analysis of TennCare’s provider enrollment files. 
                                                          
35 DentaQuest is TennCare’s dental benefits manager.  We evaluated both physicians (medical doctors and osteopathic doctors) and dentists in DentaQuest’s 
provider enrollment file. 


--- Page 68 ---
 
55 
Deceased Providers 
 
We compared TennCare’s MCCs’ provider enrollment files to the Tennessee Department 
of Health’s vital statistics records and identified 44 deceased individuals who were listed as 
active providers.  Table 11 summarizes deceased providers by MCC.    
 
Table 11 
Deceased Providers by Managed Care Contractor 
Managed Care Contractor 
Number of Deceased 
Providers Listed as Active 
Amerigroup 
7 
BlueCare 
15 
DentaQuest 
2 
TennCare Select 
15 
UnitedHealthcare 
5 
Total: 
44 
Source: Auditor analysis of TennCare’s provider enrollment files. 
 
 
 
Under 42 CFR 455.436, state agencies must check the Social Security Administration’s 
Death Master File upon provider enrollment and reenrollment.  TennCare Policy PRO 16-001, 
“Provider Screening Requirements,” requires ongoing checks for provider deaths.  Furthermore, 
TennCare requires its MCCs to screen their provider enrollment files monthly against the Social 
Security Administration’s Death Master File to detect deceased providers. 
 
 
Based on our discussion with the Director of Provider Services, TennCare’s and the 
MCCs’ monthly checks of the Death Master File failed to capture the deceased providers we 
identified.  As noted in Finding 3 related to deceased members, information in the Death Master 
File does not always align with the Tennessee Department of Health’s vital statistics records, 
which creates the potential for TennCare to establish the wrong date or no date of death for an 
individual.  In those cases, TennCare and its MCCs lacked an accurate trigger to remove 
deceased providers timely.  The Director of Provider Services also found an instance where a 
deceased provider shared the same name as another provider, causing confusion as to which one 
was deceased. 
 
Invalid Service Addresses 
 
 
 
TennCare and its MCCs did not monitor providers’ service addresses to verify that they 
were legitimate places of business.  We performed our own analysis and identified 56 TennCare 
providers with private mailbox addresses and 8,606 TennCare providers with addresses unknown 
to the United States Postal Service (USPS).  
 
Private Mailbox Addresses 
 
 
 
 
 
In a common Medicaid billing fraud scheme, a perpetrator will establish a fraudulent 
healthcare provider and register a private mailbox address as his or her official place of business.  
A private mailbox address looks like a legitimate street address, but it belongs to a Commercial 


--- Page 69 ---
 
56 
Mail Receiving Agency that accepts mail on behalf of customers.  USPS licenses Commercial 
Mail Receiving Agencies and maintains records of addresses associated with these agencies in its 
Address Management System.  We compared TennCare’s MCC provider enrollment files to the 
Address Management System and found 56 providers with private mailbox addresses associated 
with Commercial Mail Receiving Agencies. 
 
A private mailbox address does not necessarily indicate that a provider is fraudulent.  A 
provider could operate from a genuine street address but use a private mailbox for convenience, 
privacy, or security.  Based on the private mailbox address alone, however, we could not 
determine whether the 56 providers with private mailbox addresses were legitimate businesses.   
 
Unknown Addresses 
 
USPS’ Address Management System is a comprehensive database of all mailing 
addresses in the nation.  We compared TennCare’s MCC provider enrollment files to the 
Address Management System and identified 8,606 provider addresses that were not in the 
database.    
 
Table 12 summarizes private mailbox and unknown provider service addresses by MCC.    
 
Table 12 
Invalid Provider Service Addresses by Managed Care Contractor 
Managed Care 
Contractor 
Private Mailbox 
Addresses 
Unknown 
Addresses 
Amerigroup 
15 
1,370 
BlueCare 
8 
2,519 
DentaQuest 
- 
45 
TennCare Select 
8 
2,366 
UnitedHealthcare 
25 
2,370 
Total: 
56 
8,670 
Source: Auditor analysis of TennCare’s provider enrollment files. 
 
 
 
Data matching alone is not sufficient to determine whether these addresses involve fraud.  
The private mailbox addresses could indicate that a legitimate provider mistakenly enrolled with 
his or her mailing address instead of service address.  The unknown addresses may have errors 
due to inaccurate data entry or differences in the ages of the USPS data and the provider 
enrollment file data.  Although the Director of Provider Services explained that TennCare 
validates provider enrollment file addresses as part of its monthly network accessibility 
compliance tests, neither TennCare nor the MCCs follow up on addresses that did not pass 
validation.  Consequently, TennCare did not have the information necessary to determine 
whether address deficiencies occurred due to error, fraud, or data age differences.  Furthermore, 
TennCare’s address validation process does not identify private mailbox addresses, which appear 
to be legitimate street addresses but are not.    
  
 
 
TennCare’s provider screening process mandates site visits for certain providers, which 
would help determine whether a provider’s service address is authentic.  Under 42 CFR 455.432, 


--- Page 70 ---
 
57 
TennCare must conduct pre- and post-enrollment site visits of providers who are designated as 
moderate or high risk, based on factors such as the type of services offered and years in business.  
The providers we identified with private mailbox addresses were mostly physician and non-
physician practitioners and clinics, which TennCare ordinarily designates as low risk and 
therefore not subject to mandatory site visits.   
 
 
 
Effective provider screening is necessary to prevent fraud and control Medicaid costs.  
By not detecting and following up on license deficiencies; deceased providers; and providers 
with unknown and private mailbox addresses, TennCare increases the risk of improper payments 
to providers who are not eligible to serve its members.  These problems also frustrate members’ 
efforts to select and locate available healthcare services.  Furthermore, inaccurate provider data 
increases the risk that TennCare cannot inaccurately and readily determine the number of the 
active providers in TennCare’s managed care plans and prevents TennCare from precisely 
measuring the availability, geographic distribution, and density of covered services. 
 
Recommendation 
 
Invalid Licenses 
 
 
 
TennCare’s MCCs should ensure that the providers we identified are actively licensed in 
Tennessee and correctly classified in the provider enrollment files.  TennCare should implement 
a process to periodically identify and suspend providers whose licenses have expired.  
 
Deceased Providers 
 
 
 
TennCare should implement a process to check both the Tennessee Department of 
Health’s vital statistics records and the Social Security Administration Death Master file to 
timely remove deceased providers from the active provider enrollment files. 
 
Invalid Service Addresses 
 
 
 
TennCare should update its provider enrollment process to include address verification.  
TennCare should return addresses that do not pass data validation for the network accessibility 
tests to the MCCs.  The MCCs should then obtain accurate address information for these 
providers. 
 
Management’s Comment 
 
We concur.  Although TennCare has extensive processes in place to validate provider 
reported data, terminate ineligible providers, and recoup claims paid to ineligible providers, 
TennCare will explore improvements and additions to these processes as recommended by the 
auditors.  In addition, TennCare will follow up on each of the providers identified in the audit to 
confirm that they are correctly classified and actively licensed.   
 
 


--- Page 71 ---
 
58 
NON-EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES________ 
 
Federal regulations require TennCare to offer non-emergency medical transportation to 
convey members to and from routine medical appointments and other TennCare-covered services.  
TennCare members who have Medicare coverage may also use this benefit to access Medicare-
covered services.  TennCare accounts for the cost of non-emergency medical transportation in its 
capitation payments to its managed care contractors (MCCs), who subcontract a transportation 
broker to administer the benefit.  Transportation brokers’ responsibilities include  
 
 maintaining a statewide network of transport providers;  
 screening and training drivers;  
 scheduling, assigning, and dispatching rides; and  
 monitoring transport providers’ performance. 
 
Based on the transportation brokers’ claims data, an average of 31,683 TennCare 
members per month received 1.6 million rides between July 2017 and February 2018.  Members 
use public buses, multi-passenger vans, wheelchair vans, and ambulances (when medically 
necessary).  Members may also provide their own transportation and seek mileage 
reimbursement from their managed care plan’s transportation broker. 
 
In a February 2016 report, the U.S. Government Accountability Office identified non-
emergency medical transportation services as a high-risk area for Medicaid fraud and abuse.  
Common non-emergency medical transportation fraud schemes include Medicaid members using 
transportation for non-medical purposes and providers billing for trips that never occurred.  In 
August 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice reported that one Nashville-based transportation 
provider paid $550,000 to settle allegations that it submitted false claims for transportation 
services not rendered to TennCare members.  
 
TennCare has established compliance requirements in its managed care contracts to 
promote the integrity of non-emergency medical transportation services.  For example, 
TennCare’s MCCs must post-validate
36 at least 2% of all transportation claims each month to 
ensure each claim corresponds to a valid TennCare medical, pharmacy, dental, or behavioral 
health claim for the same date.  
 
We focused our audit work on determining whether TennCare members used non-
emergency medical transportation services for allowed purposes. 
 
Audit Results 
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare members use non-emergency medical transportation services to 
access covered services? 
 
                                                          
36 Managed care contractors post-validate by matching billed transportation claims to billed healthcare provider 
claims to ensure that the TennCare member had a legitimate medical reason for the transportation. 


--- Page 72 ---
 
59 
Conclusion: 
We determined that non-emergency medical transportation services did not 
always accompany a claim for covered services, and greater oversight of the 
program could help TennCare detect improper payments (see Observation 3). 
 
 
Observation 3 – Greater oversight of the non-emergency medical transportation program could 
help TennCare detect improper claims 
 
TennCare did not regularly analyze non-emergency medical transportation claims to 
monitor program standards and detect potentially improper payments.  We performed our own 
analysis of 5,267,524 non-emergency medical transportation claims filed between July 1, 2016, 
and June 30, 2017, and identified 28,721 claims with no associated medical claim on the date of 
the transportation.  We identified an additional 271,790 non-emergency medical transportation 
claims with no associated TennCare medical claim for members with both TennCare and 
Medicare coverage.  Neither we nor TennCare had access to Medicare claims to determine 
whether those members appropriately used TennCare-provided transportation to access 
Medicare-covered services.  Table 13 summarizes these claims by MCC. 
 
Table 13 
Non-Emergency Medical Transportation Claims  
Without an Associated TennCare Medical Claim 
July 1, 2016, Through June 30, 2017 
 
Trips by Members 
With TennCare 
Coverage Only 
Trips by Members 
With TennCare and 
Medicare Coverage 
Total Potentially 
Improper Trips Paid 
Amerigroup 
8,891 
93,536 
102,427 
BlueCare  
15,463 
142,597 
158,060 
UnitedHealthcare 
4,367 
35,657 
40,024 
Total 
28,721 
271,790 
300,511 
Source: Auditor analysis of TennCare’s non-emergency medical transportation claims. 
 
We considered these claims potentially improper because our analysis alone did not 
provide sufficient information to conclude on their legitimacy.  For example, a transportation 
claim would have no associated TennCare medical claim if the provider billed Medicare instead 
of TennCare for the service.  Also, providers may not bill at all for some services, such as 
orientation visits.  Consequently, we tested a sample of 60 potentially improper non-emergency 
medical transportation claims for each MCC.  Our testwork identified the following:  
 
 Eight of 60 Amerigroup non-emergency medical transportation claims tested (13%) 
had no supporting TennCare claim from a TennCare provider and no provider record to 
support that the member saw a provider on the day transportation was provided.  Three 
of these claims lacked documentation, such as driver logs, to prove the trip occurred. 
 Eleven of 60 BlueCare non-emergency medical transportation claims tested (18%) 
had no supporting TennCare claim from a TennCare provider and no provider record 
to support that the member saw a provider on the day of transportation service.  One 
of these claims lacked documentation to prove the trip occurred. 


--- Page 73 ---
 
60 
 One of 60 UnitedHealthcare non-emergency medical transportation claims tested 
(2%) had no supporting TennCare claim from a TennCare provider and no provider 
record to support that the member saw a provider on the day of transportation service. 
 
TennCare’s non-emergency medical transportation claims data from Amerigroup and 
BlueCare did not include the amount the transportation broker paid each provider for the claim.  
As a result, TennCare could not provide us with enough information to estimate the dollar 
amount of improper non-emergency medical transportation claims associated with those MCCs.  
Based on our testwork, we estimated UnitedHealthcare non-emergency medical transportation 
claims with no associated medical claim totaled approximately $51,053.  
 
According to Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 431, Section 53, “A State plan 
must (a) Specify that the Medicaid agency will ensure necessary transportation for beneficiaries 
to and from providers.”  Furthermore, Section A.4.2.3 of TennCare’s managed care contract 
requires the MCC to screen all requests for non-emergency medical transportation services to 
confirm that members request transportation for a TennCare-covered service. 
 
Based on discussion with TennCare’s Director of Managed Care Compliance/Non-
Emergency Medical Transportation Program Manager, TennCare does not routinely validate 
non-emergency medical transportation claims.  TennCare delegates this responsibility to the 
MCCs.  TennCare requires the MCCs to pre-validate 2% and post-validate 2% of trips per 
month.  The MCCs provide summaries of their validation results to TennCare in quarterly Pre-
Transportation and Post-Transportation Validation Check reports.  Our analysis of these reports 
for July 2016 through September 2017 disclosed that, on average, the MCCs could not 
substantiate the medical purpose for 11% of trips selected for pre-validation and 11% of trips 
selected for post-validation audit each month. 
 
The Director of Managed Care Compliance/Non-Emergency Medical Transportation 
Program Manager further explained that when a member’s trip fails a post-validation audit, the 
transportation broker must pre-validate that member’s next three trips by verifying in advance that 
the trip is for a legitimate medical purpose.  TennCare does not mandate that the MCC and the 
transportation broker place limitations on providers who repeatedly fail post-validation audits. 
 
When TennCare services are not adequately monitored, there is a greater risk for 
improper payments due to fraud, waste, or abuse of these services.  Improper payments in the 
non-emergency medical transportation program increases managed care costs for TennCare, 
resulting in wasted taxpayer funds. 
 
Recommendation 
 
TennCare should routinely analyze non-emergency medical transportation claims to monitor 
the program, detect potentially improper payments, and identify high-risk providers and members.  
 


--- Page 74 ---
 
 
Eligibility 
Redetermination 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 75 ---
 
61 
General Background  
 
Redetermination Process 
 
Federal regulations require TennCare to redetermine members’ eligibility for Medicaid 
benefits annually.  Since 2015, TennCare has contracted with a vendor to assist with this process.  
TennCare sends the vendor a monthly list of members due for eligibility redetermination; the 
vendor, in turn, sends renewal applications to those members.  Members must complete and 
return the application, providing updated demographic and financial information.  The vendor 
processes returned applications and reviews each member for modified adjusted gross income 
(MAGI) eligibility based on the information it has received.
37 If approved for MAGI and not 
potentially eligible for other non-MAGI categories that provide higher benefits, then the vendor 
sends a transaction to TennCare indicating reapproval.  If not approved for MAGI or potentially 
eligible for other categories, the vendor then refers the renewal packet to TennCare staff to 
determine eligibility for a non-MAGI category.  Following TennCare’s determination, the 
member is either approved for continued benefits or sent a termination letter with information 
about the member’s appeal rights.  TennCare terminates the eligibility of members who do not 
meet the conditions of any eligibility category, or who fail to return the renewal application or 
respond timely to requests for additional information.  The vendor maintains copies of renewal 
applications, supporting documentation, and associated case notes in its information system.   
 
Medicare Savings Programs 
 
 
TennCare’s redetermination process includes reviewing the eligibility of Medicare 
Savings Program members.  This program helps certain groups of members who qualify for 
Medicare pay for Medicare premiums.  There are four different program categories, which offer 
varying levels of assistance with Medicare costs:  
 
 the Qualified Disabled and Working Individuals category pays a member’s Medicare 
Part A (hospital insurance) premiums only;  
 the Qualifying Individual and the Specified Low-Income Medicare Beneficiary 
categories pay a member’s Medicare Part B (medical insurance) premiums only; and  
 the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary category pays for a member’s Medicare Part A 
and Part B premiums, as well as deductibles, coinsurance, and copays.  
 
To qualify for Medicare Savings Program benefits, a member’s income and resources (assets 
such as checking and savings accounts, stocks, and bonds) may not exceed specified limits.   
 
In December 2017, the Tennessee Comptroller of the Treasury issued a review report of 
TennCare eligibility redeterminations.
38  The report offered several suggestions for improving 
communications and processes for the renewals of Medicare Savings Program members.  
                                                          
37 According to TennCare management, TennCare is also required to verify information provided by the individual 
using electronic data sources and interfaces, such as the Social Security Administration, whenever possible. 
38 The review report is accessible online at 
http://www.comptroller.tn.gov/repository/SA/TennCareMemoandReport.pdf.  


--- Page 76 ---
 
62 
TennCare has now implemented most of those suggestions.  During our audit fieldwork, the 
Comptroller’s Office received an allegation that TennCare disregarded its redetermination 
findings and intentionally allowed ineligible individuals to retain Medicare Savings Program 
benefits, to avoid litigation and reduce the agency’s appeals caseload.  Because of this allegation, 
we expanded our audit work to include TennCare’s redetermination of Medicare Savings 
Program member eligibility. 
 
Audit Results  
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare appropriately redetermine members’ eligibility for Medicare 
Savings Program benefits? 
 
Conclusion: 
We determined that for 30 of 60 of members tested (50%), TennCare did not 
appropriately redetermine or document eligibility for Medicare Savings 
Program benefits (see Observation 4).  
 
 
Observation 4 – TennCare did not properly terminate, modify, and document member eligibility 
for Medicare Savings Program benefits; however, management believes the upcoming 
implementation of the Tennessee Eligibility Determination System will resolve these issues 
 
 
In violation of its policy, TennCare did not terminate Medicare Savings Program benefits 
of members who no longer met eligibility requirements and members who failed to complete a 
renewal application or supply requested documentation.  In addition, TennCare did not assign 
members to the appropriate Medicare Savings Program eligibility category based on income.   
 
From a population of 737 Medicare Savings Program members, we tested a sample of 
active Medicare Savings Program members and found that TennCare did not appropriately 
redetermine the eligibility of 14 of 60 (23%) of the members tested.  Based on the documentation 
we reviewed in TennCare’s redetermination vendor’s system, we identified the following: 
 
 5 members who either failed to disclose income or reported income over 
Medicare Savings Program eligibility limits 
TennCare notified these members that they no longer qualified for Medicare Savings 
Program benefits and set a coverage termination date.  TennCare then either failed to 
terminate coverage or reversed the termination decision, even though members’ 
income exceeded eligibility limits or was not disclosed at all.  TennCare may have 
based these decisions on its independent verification of members’ Social Security 
income with the Social Security Administration but did not consider other sources of 
income, such as retirement benefits.  
 1 member who failed to submit proof of resources, such as checking account 
balances  
TennCare requested the missing proof of resources from this member and, when the 
member did not respond, scheduled a coverage termination date.  TennCare then 
failed to terminate coverage or reversed the termination decision, despite the missing 
information.  


--- Page 77 ---
 
63 
 1 member without a properly completed renewal application on file 
TennCare had no redetermination application on file for this member, though case 
notes indicated that TennCare had processed the member’s application.  Without a 
redetermination application on file, we could not conclude whether the member still 
met Medicare Savings Program eligibility criteria.  
 5 members whom TennCare did not assign to the appropriate Medicare Savings 
Program category based on income 
We identified 5 members who remained eligible for the Medicare Savings Program 
but who TennCare should have assigned to a different benefit category based on 
income.  One of the 5 members received less benefits than she qualified for, and 3 
members received more benefits than their income allowed.  One member would 
have received the same level of benefits.  TennCare may have based these decisions 
on its independent verification of members’ Social Security income with the Social 
Security Administration but did not consider other sources of income, such as 
retirement benefits.    
 1 member who was improperly terminated from the program 
We identified 1 member who qualified for Medicare Savings Program benefits, but 
TennCare improperly terminated the member’s eligibility.  The member did not 
appeal timely, so TennCare did not reactivate the member’s benefits.  After we 
brought this error to management’s attention, the individual’s benefits have been 
reactivated with no break in their coverage. 
 
Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 435, Section 916 requires TennCare to 
determine the eligibility of Medicaid every 12 months.  Part 8 of TennCare’s Policy 200.030 
states, “Applicants must provide complete and accurate information regarding their individual 
circumstances within specified time limits.” According to TennCare’s Policy 200.040, TennCare 
will record in an individual’s electronic case file all pertinent information, documentation, and 
verifications obtained or used in the eligibility determination process. 
 
We discussed the deficiencies we identified with TennCare’s Chief Operating Officer, the 
Director of Member Services, and the Director of Internal Audit.  Management explained that the 
state was working through outstanding renewals in preparation for implementation of the new 
Tennessee Eligibility Determination System (TEDS), and there was a group of Medicare Savings 
Program members who were still in a pending status.  The state has been prioritizing those 
individuals most likely to be included in the first pilot of TEDS, which does not include 
Medicare Savings Program members.   
 
Management stated that it uses the State On-Line Query System (SOLQ), an application 
provided by the Social Security Administration, to verify the individual’s Social Security 
income; however, this information is not always documented in the member’s redetermination 
file.  Furthermore, we could not always determine whether employees considered other income 
sources in their redetermination decisions.  Management stated that it expects the launch of 
TEDS in spring 2019 to streamline the redetermination process.  During the fiscal year 2019 
Single Audit of TennCare, auditors will perform redetermination testwork to ensure that the new 


--- Page 78 ---
 
64 
system has corrected these issues.  For more information regarding the TEDS system, see 
Observation 8.  
 
When TennCare does not appropriately redetermine eligibility for Medicare Savings 
Program benefits, it increases the risk of ineligible members receiving benefits to which they are 
not entitled and increases the risk of eligible members not receiving the benefits they should be 
receiving.  The Director of Member Services should ensure that redetermination staff are 
following procedures to appropriately determine a member’s eligibility. 
 


--- Page 79 ---
 
 
 
Provider Network 
Accessibility 


--- Page 80 ---
 
65 
Accessibility (or access to healthcare) is the ease with which an individual can reach 
services that preserve or improve his or her health.  As one of its program goals, TennCare 
strives to “assure appropriate access to care” for its members.  To receive care, a TennCare 
member must generally see a provider that participates in his or her managed care contractor’s 
(MCC) network.  TennCare requires its MCCs to develop provider networks with sufficient 
number, variety of specialties, and geographic distribution to satisfy accessibility standards that 
TennCare developed.  These standards include requirements for 
 
 the maximum distance that a TennCare member should travel to see different types of 
providers, both in rural and urban areas; 
 the maximum number of TennCare patients per physician; and 
 the maximum amount of time a TennCare member should wait for primary, specialist, 
and urgent care appointments.  
 
TennCare employs three strategies to ensure its MCCs comply with network accessibility 
standards.  The MCCs must analyze their networks and report their compliance to TennCare 
annually.  In addition, TennCare conducts its own monthly analysis of MCCs’ provider 
networks.  Finally, TennCare contracts with an external quality review organization to test and 
verify annually the MCCs’ adherence to network accessibility standards. 
 
We focused our audit work on TennCare members’ access to physician specialists.  
Physician specialists are doctors who have advanced education and training in a specific area of 
medicine, such as neurology, orthopedics, or cardiology. 
  
Audit Results  
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s managed care contractors (MCCs) meet network accessibility 
standards for physician specialists? 
 
Conclusion: 
Although TennCare’s MCCs met network accessibility standards for 
physician specialists, our analysis disclosed that these standards were not 
stringent enough to ensure members had appropriate access to care (see 
Observation 5).  
 
 
Observation 5 – Although the managed care contractors’ networks met or exceeded TennCare’s 
established network accessibility standards, TennCare’s standards were set to permit the 
networks to retain fewer than 10 physicians per specialty, which could pose barriers to access 
should networks choose to operate at the minimum standard requirements  
 
TennCare’s network accessibility standards currently allow managed care contractors 
(MCCs) to operate networks with a fewer number of physician specialists relative to the size of 
TennCare’s member population as compared to the federal accessibility standards.  We evaluated 
TennCare’s specialist-to-member ratio standards, which specify the maximum number of 


--- Page 81 ---
 
66 
members per physician specialist.  For example, TennCare’s standards require all MCCs to have 
at least 1 cardiologist per 20,000 members.   
 
Based on our analysis, TennCare has set the maximum number of members per specialist 
such that for some specialties (including allergy and immunology, oncology and hematology), 
networks can retain only 2 specialists to serve as many as 188,000 members.  Table 14 presents 
TennCare’s specialist-to-member ratio standards compared to the same standards the federal 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services requires of Medicare Advantage plan
39 networks. 
 
When we evaluated TennCare’s provider networks, we found that the MCCs have 
exceeded the standards set by TennCare, and, based on our analysis, we determined that each 
specialty had an average of 60 times the number of physicians in the network than TennCare’s 
standards required.  TennCare’s Director of Provider Services explained that the MCCs have a 
financial interest in maintaining robust specialist networks, because members with good access 
to physicians are more likely to seek routine and preventive care in cost-effective office settings 
rather than in a hospital. 
 
Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 438, Section 206(a) requires state 
Medicaid agencies to develop standards to ensure members have timely access to covered 
services.  Furthermore, 42 CFR 438.68(c) specifies that states’ standards must reflect factors 
such as anticipated enrollment, expected utilization of services, and the numbers and types of 
providers required to furnish services.  In its Promoting Access in Medicaid and CHIP Managed 
Care toolkit, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recommends states use historical 
and projected encounter data and provider productivity estimates to develop ratio standards.  The 
toolkit also recommends states should revise and update ratio standards when access issues arise 
or improve.   
 
 
                                                          
39 Medicare Advantage plans are health insurance plans operated by private companies that contract with Medicare.     


--- Page 82 ---
 
67 
Table 14 
Comparison of Specialist-to-Member Ratio Requirements – TennCare and Medicare 
Advantage Plans  
Specialty 
Maximum Number of Members per Each Physician Specialist 
TennCare 
Medicare Advantage Plans
40 
Metropolitan Areas 
Rural Areas 
Allergy and immunology 
100,000   
20,000 
25,000 
Cardiology 
20,000    
3,704 
4,348 
Dermatology 
40,000   
6,250 
7,143 
Endocrinology 
25,000  
25,000 
33,333 
Gastroenterology 
30,000   
8,333 
10,000 
General Surgery 
15,000   
3,571 
4,167 
Nephrology 
50,000  
11,111 
12,500 
Neurology 
35,000  
8,333 
10,000 
Neurosurgery 
45,000  
100,000 
100,000 
Oncology and 
hematology 
80,000  
16,667 
20,000 
Ophthalmology 
20,000  
4,167 
5,000 
Orthopedic surgery 
15,000  
5,000 
5,882 
Otolaryngology 
30,000  
16,667 
20,000 
Psychiatry (adult) 
25,000  
7,143 
8,333 
Psychiatry (child and 
adolescent) 
150,000  
No standard 
No standard 
Urology 
30,000  
8,333 
10,000 
Comparison 
 TennCare’s standard is less stringent than the Medicare Advantage Plan standard. 
 TennCare’s standard is more stringent than the Medicare Advantage Plan standard. 
Source: TennCare managed care contracts; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ Health Service Delivery 
Reference File, effective January 1, 2018.  
 
 
Based on our review of the managed care contracts dating back to 2006, TennCare has 
not updated its specialist-to-member ratio requirements in at least 12 years.  When we inquired 
with management to determine whether it had considered raising the ratio standards to reflect the 
reality of the managed care networks and members’ needs, the Director of Provider Services said 
management had not considered changing the ratio requirements and that making this change 
could increase the MCCs’ administrative burden in monitoring and reporting compliance—
which TennCare already requires its contractors to do.  The Chief Operating Officer said the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services does not specifically require TennCare to have a 
ratio standard.  He added that physician-to-member ratios are the least useful indicator of 
member access compared to TennCare’s other network accessibility metrics, such as driving 
distance and appointment wait time.  When we asked why TennCare keeps a standard that is not 
useful, the Chief Operating Officer told us that removing the ratio standards would involve 
revising managed care contracts that are hundreds of pages long. 
 
                                                          
40 The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services prescribes different specialist-to-member ratio standards based 
on the population size and density of the geographic area in which a plan operates. 


--- Page 83 ---
 
68 
The purpose of network accessibility standards is to strengthen members’ access to care.  
When these standards are not monitored and revised based on members’ actual and expected 
utilization of benefits, members could face substantial difficulties and delays in receiving care.  
Furthermore, by requiring MCCs to measure and monitor standards that TennCare management 
does not consider useful, TennCare has placed an unnecessary administrative burden on itself 
and its MCCs.      
 
 


--- Page 84 ---
 
 
Opioid Epidemic


--- Page 85 ---
 
69 
TENNCARE’S OPIOID STRATEGY__________________________________ 
 
General Background 
 
According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, in the late 1990s, 
many pharmaceutical companies reassured the medical community that patients would not 
become addicted to opioid pain relievers, and healthcare providers began to prescribe them at 
greater rates.  Increased prescriptions of opioid medications led to widespread misuse of both 
prescription and non-prescription opioids before it became clear that these medications could 
indeed be highly addictive.  According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
from 1999 to 2016, more than 200,000 people in the United States died from overdoses related to 
prescription opioids.  
 
 
The Opioid Crisis in Tennessee 
  
According to the Tennessee Department of Health, opioid overdose deaths in Tennessee 
rose from 698 in 2012 to 1,186 in 2016, an increase of 70%, and Tennessee remains in the top 15 
states in drug overdose deaths.  
 
Tennessee’s Opioid Prescriptions 
 
According to the Office of the Governor’s Tennessee Together, a plan introduced in 
January 2018, each year more opioid prescriptions are written for Tennessee residents than there 
are people living in the state, with 1 million more prescriptions than residents.  Although 
Tennessee has the third highest opioid prescribing rate in the United States, the rate has steadily 
decreased from 2014 to 2016 because of the medical community’s continued efforts to self-
regulate prescriptions and reduce initial opioid dosage and supply. 
 
According to the Tennessee Medical Association, an April 2018 report published by the 
IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science shows nearly a 9% drop in Tennessee of filled opioid 
prescriptions in 2017 compared to 2016, and a 21.3% drop from 2017 to 2013. 
 
Effect on TennCare Members 
  
According to the Information and Statistics section of TennCare’s website, during 2016, 
medical professionals treated 1,349 of 42,039 TennCare newborns for neonatal abstinence 
syndrome, a drug withdrawal syndrome that occurs primarily among opioid-exposed infants 
shortly after birth and often manifests in central nervous system irritability, overactivity, and 
gastrointestinal tract dysfunction.
41  The total cost of medical care for these infants in their first 
year of life was $54,191,165 in calendar year 2016, which was 8 times higher than the average 
cost of care for normal birthweight infants.   
 
 
                                                          
41 Source: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 


--- Page 86 ---
 
70 
Audit Results 
 
Audit Objective: Has TennCare addressed the state’s opioid epidemic for its members? 
 
Conclusion: 
We determined that TennCare developed and implemented strategies to 
address the state’s opioid epidemic as it relates to TennCare’s members.  
Management has measurement strategies for prevention in place; however, 
due to the recent implementation of some strategies, we were unable to 
determine the current overall effectiveness (see Observation 6). 
 
 
Observation 6 – TennCare has implemented strategies to reduce opioid abuse among its 
members, but the effectiveness of those strategies cannot be measured currently  
 
 
In coordination with its managed care organizations (MCOs), TennCare has implemented 
the following strategies:  
 
 instituting opioid prescription quantity and dosage limits;  
 tracking providers who are the most frequent prescribers of opioids; 
 increasing access to non-opioid pain relievers; and  
 requiring that providers conduct patient risk assessments before prescribing opioids to 
chronic users.   
 
Abuse Prevention Strategies 
 
TennCare separates its opioid abuse prevention strategies into three categories: primary 
prevention, secondary prevention, and tertiary prevention.  
 
1. Primary Prevention 
 
TennCare’s main goals for primary prevention are to prevent members from becoming 
newly dependent or addicted to opioids by 
 
 improving access to non-opioid pain medication therapies; 
 establishing strict opioid day limits and dosage limits for non-chronic users; and 
 increasing the number of prior authorization forms providers must complete to 
prescribe all opioid refills. 
 
TennCare implemented the following steps in January 2018: 
 
 removing prior authorization requirements for some medication therapies; 
 establishing minimum and maximum day limits, as well as reducing the daily 
maximum dosage limits; and 


--- Page 87 ---
 
71 
 requiring prior authorization forms approved by TennCare’s pharmacy benefits 
manager for all non-chronic user opioid prescription refills beyond an initial five-day 
supply. 
 
2. Secondary Prevention 
 
This strategy focuses on provider intervention by educating providers about 
 
 appropriate prescribing habits and tapering of chronic opioid use; 
 increasing access to long-acting reversible contraceptives for women (such as 
injections, intrauterine devices [IUDs], or contraceptive implants); and  
 increasing outreach to pregnant women and women of childbearing age who have 
used or are currently using opioids. 
 
 
TennCare has implemented the following steps: 
 
 Around 2009, TennCare started using the top prescribers report card to rank providers 
that were among the most frequent prescribers of opioids based on a comparison of 
the provider’s prescribing levels within the same region and across the state.42 
 Around 2014, MCOs started using seminars, webinars, and written materials to provide 
opioid use data to providers and promote alternative pain medications and therapies.  
 In November 2017, TennCare collaborated with its MCOs to provide financial 
incentives to physicians and hospitals to inform mothers of long-term reversible birth 
control devices immediately after giving birth.  
 In December 2017, TennCare collaborated with its MCOs to develop provider-
conducted risk assessments for pregnant women and women of childbearing age who 
have used or currently use opioids to determine if they are a high-risk user.  MCOs 
have care coordinators who contact and meet with this high-risk group to provide 
counseling and education regarding the dangers of opioid addiction.  
 
3. Tertiary Prevention 
 
This strategy focuses on supporting active recovery for severe opioid dependence and 
addiction by 
 
 lowering the TennCare-allowed maximum dosage for chronic users; 
 increasing outreach to the highest-risk members; and  
                                                          
42 From 2009 to 2016, TennCare prepared the high-prescriber reports based on paid and denied pharmacy claims to 
release a report card to providers highlighting their opioid prescribing patterns.  If a provider was consistently above 
the prescribing medians, TennCare would contact the MCO to determine if the provider needed additional education 
and to make any network decisions (such as removing the provider from the network or taking disciplinary action).  
In 2017, TennCare’s MCOs began compiling high-prescriber reports to send to providers to identify opportunities 
for provider education, to educate providers, and to make any network decisions. 


--- Page 88 ---
 
72 
 defining opioid addiction treatment standards and developing treatment networks.  
 
TennCare has implemented the following steps: 
 
 In July 2004, TennCare implemented the Pharmacy Lock-In Program, which restricts 
either a high-risk member or a member suspected of doctor shopping to one 
pharmacy where they must fill all their prescriptions. 
 In September 2017, TennCare implemented a daily dose limitation for chronic opioid 
users.  
 In January 2018, TennCare began requiring providers to complete a substance abuse 
risk assessment form and document patient behavior or characteristics that may 
indicate risk of addiction before prescribing opioids to a chronic user. 
 As of June 2018, TennCare is collaborating with its MCOs to develop updated 
Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) provider standards based on the U.S. 
Department of Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services’ guidelines.  These 
guidelines recommend the use of medications, in combination with counseling and 
behavioral therapies, to provide a “whole-patient” approach to treating substance use 
disorders.  Buprenorphine, which suppresses opioid withdrawal symptoms, is the 
primary medication used by MAT providers in TennCare’s network.  
 
TennCare’s goal is for each MCO to contract with a MAT provider that is within 45 
minutes’ travel time for at least 75% of its non-dual members
43 and within 60 minutes’ travel 
time for 100% of its non-dual members. According to TennCare data, as of November 2017, the 
TennCare network includes 180 licensed buprenorphine prescribers, but 44 counties in 
Tennessee do not have a TennCare network provider who is licensed to prescribe buprenorphine.  
See Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3 
Licensed Buprenorphine Prescribers in the TennCare Network as of November 2017 
 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
                                                          
43 A non-dual TennCare member is a member that does not carry both Medicare and TennCare coverages. 


--- Page 89 ---
 
73 
Based on discussions with the Chief Medical Officer, TennCare has measurement 
methods in place to gauge the strategies’ effectiveness (for example, a measurement method for 
the tertiary prevention strategy is to measure outreach to chronic members who have entered a 
MAT recovery program).  However, due to the recent implementation of some strategies, we 
were unable to determine the overall effectiveness.  Furthermore, TennCare has not set specific 
numeric measurement goals for reducing member opioid use, but TennCare defines success as a 
steady decline in user rates. 
 
Currently, TennCare is collaborating with Magellan, the pharmacy benefits manager, to 
implement Performance Improvement Projects (PIPs), which will involve Magellan performing 
data analysis of member opioid use based on member-filled prescriptions.  The Chief Medical 
Officer stated that the first PIP was completed in July 2018 and analyzed opioid usage data from 
2017 and prior.  Due to the timing of our fieldwork, however, we did not review this analysis.  
Magellan will analyze the 2018 opioid data during the July 2019 PIP.  In the next audit, we will 
review TennCare’s measurement methods and results to determine their effectiveness. 
 
 
TENNCARE DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW BOARD AND TENNCARE 
PHARMACY ADVISORY COMMITTEE______________________________ 
 
General Background 
 
The TennCare Drug Utilization Review (DUR) Board and the TennCare Pharmacy 
Advisory Committee were created to monitor prescription drug use of TennCare members across 
the state and to make recommendations for prescription drugs to be added to TennCare’s 
preferred drug list.  While the board and committee have similar requirements and duties, each 
one was created for a specific purpose.   
 
TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board44 
 
Pursuant to Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 456, Section 716, TennCare 
created the DUR Board, which is responsible for  
 
1. discussing and making recommendations related to prescriptions for outpatient drugs;  
2. monitoring the dispensing of clinically appropriate outpatient drugs;  
3. reviewing, evaluating, and ensuring enrollees’ appropriate drug usage; and  
4. assuring medical quality.   
 
TennCare’s DUR Board has 11 members.  Federal regulations do not specify a required 
membership number but do specify board membership as follows: 
 
                                                          
44 Section 71-5-190, Tennessee Code Annotated, mentions a TennCare drug utilization review committee.  Because 
Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 456, Section 716 had created the TennCare Drug Utilization Review 
Board, it was not necessary to create the TennCare drug utilization review committee.  Our audit results are based on 
the TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board (under the federal regulations).  We did not look at the TennCare drug 
utilization review committee (under Tennessee Code Annotated). 


--- Page 90 ---
 
74 
 at least one-third but not more than 51% of members must be licensed and actively 
practicing physicians; and 
 at least one-third must be licensed and actively practicing pharmacists.   
 
The federal regulations also require that the DUR Board must meet at least quarterly.  
 
 
The DUR Board advises TennCare management of appropriate dosages, uses, and 
potential issues of prescription drugs and makes recommendations to the TennCare Pharmacy 
Advisory Committee.   
 
TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee 
 
Section 71-5-2401, Tennessee Code Annotated, established the TennCare Pharmacy 
Advisory Committee (TPAC) to make recommendations regarding TennCare’s preferred drug 
list (PDL) and to provide oversight for all state expenditures for prescription drugs under the 
program.  The committee is governed by 15 members; however, during our initial review, the 
committee had 2 vacancies.  The membership must represent the following stakeholders, who 
must be enrolled as TennCare providers: 
 
 psychiatrists; 
 nurse practitioners or physician assistants; 
 practicing physicians representing geriatric groups; 
 pediatricians; 
 family practitioners; 
 cardiologists; 
 general internists; and  
 pharmacists. 
 
In addition, the following members also serve on the committee: 
 
 a pharmacy director from a managed care organization under contract with TennCare;  
 a member of an advocacy organization that represents TennCare members; 
 TennCare’s Pharmacy and Medical Directors (ex-officio); 
 the Chair of the House Health Committee (ex-officio); and 
 the Chair of the Senate Health and Welfare Committee (ex-officio). 
 
Initial appointments made by the Governor, Speaker of the Senate, and Speaker of the 
House will serve either a one-, two-, or a three-year term, depending on their role (for example, a 
psychiatrist will serve a three-year term, a nurse practitioner will serve a one-year term, and a 
physician will serve a two-year term).  Any members not appointed serve three-year terms.  


--- Page 91 ---
 
75 
Although state statute does not specify how often the committee should meet, the committee 
meets quarterly. 
 
Section 71-5-2404, Tennessee Code Annotated, requires the committee to focus on 
 
 submitting to TennCare both specific and general recommendations for drugs to be 
included on any state PDL adopted by TennCare using evidence-based research; 
 listening to public presentations regarding a drug or classes of drugs under 
consideration for the TennCare PDL; and  
 reviewing the clinical and economic research and utilization information as requested 
on drugs and drug classes provided by TennCare or its designee.  
 
Audit Results 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC fulfill the required duties specified in the 
respective regulation or statute?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
We determined that the DUR Board and TPAC fulfilled their required 
duties. 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC meet the membership composition 
requirements?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
Based on our audit work, the DUR Board members met the specified 
membership composition requirements; however, we determined that 
TPAC had two vacant positions.  One vacancy has been unfilled for five 
years.  The second position was vacant for one year but was recently filled 
in August 2018 (see Observation 7). 
 
3. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC satisfy the meeting frequency 
requirement?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
While the DUR Board and TPAC convened quarterly, some members did 
not attend at least half of the scheduled meetings in any one-year period 
between 2015 and 2017.  The board did not have a quorum at three 
meetings (see Observation 7).  
 
 
Observation 7 – To achieve the required TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board and TennCare 
Pharmacy Advisory Committee representation, meet quorum requirements, and ensure all viewpoints 
are represented, all members should attend meetings and vacant positions should be quickly filled 
 
TennCare Drug Utilization Review Board 
 
When we examined board meeting minutes for meetings held during calendar years 2015, 
2016, and 2017, we found that on three occasions, the board did not have a quorum, resulting in 


--- Page 92 ---
 
76 
a delayed approval of the previous meeting’s minutes and the board’s recommendations to the 
TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee.  The meeting dates were 
 
 March 8, 2016, 
 September 13, 2016, and 
 December 5, 2017. 
 
We also found that some board members did not attend at least half of the scheduled 
meetings in a one-year period.  See Tables 15 and 16.  
  
Table 15 
Overview of DUR Board Members Who Failed to Attend at Least Half of the Scheduled 
Meetings  
Year 
Total Members 
Number in Noncompliance 
Percentage in Noncompliance 
2015 
8 
4 
50% 
2016 
8 
6 
75% 
2017 
10 
4 
40% 
Source: Auditor’s analysis of Drug Utilization Review Board attendance records. 
 
Table 16 
Details of Board Members’ Average Attendance 
Year 
Member 
Member Specialty 
Average 
Attendance 
2015 
Member 4 
Advanced Practice Nurse 
0% 
Member 5 
Physician 
0% 
Member 6 
Pharmacist 
25% 
Member 7 
Physician 
50% 
2016 
Member 2 
Physician 
50% 
Member 4 
Advanced Practice Nurse 
25% 
Member 5 
Physician 
0% 
Member 6 
Pharmacist 
25% 
Member 7 
Physician 
50% 
Member 8 
Pharmacist 
25% 
2017 
Member 3 
Physician 
50% 
Member 5 
Physician 
0% 
Member 7 
Physician 
50% 
Member 8 
Pharmacist 
25% 
Source: Auditor’s analysis of Drug Utilization Review Board attendance records. 
 
TennCare Pharmacy Advisory Committee 
 
During our review, we noted that two of the TPAC’s member positions had been vacant 
for some time:  
 


--- Page 93 ---
 
77 
 One House of Representatives appointment (general internist) has been vacant since 
March 20, 2013.  According to management, TennCare planned to fill it by May 17, 
2018.  As of June 8, 2018, this position has not been filled.  TennCare management 
did not know this position was vacant until we brought it to their attention.  
 
 One Governor appointment (patient advocate) had been vacant since July 2017; it was 
finally filled in August 2018.  TennCare management knew the position was vacant 
and was actively trying to fill it but had difficulty finding someone to volunteer. 
 
When we examined records for committee meetings conducted during calendar years 
2015, 2016, and 2017, we found that some committee members did not attend at least half of the 
scheduled meetings in a one-year period.  See Tables 17 and 18. 
 
Table 17 
Overview of Committee Members Who Failed to Attend At Least Half of the Scheduled 
Meetings  
Year 
Total Members 
Number in Noncompliance 
Percentage in Noncompliance 
2015 
10 
2 
20% 
2016 
14 
2 
14% 
2017 
15 
5 
33% 
Source: Auditor’s analysis of Pharmacy Advisory Committee attendance records. 
 
 


--- Page 94 ---
 
78 
Table 18 
Details of Committee Members’ Average Attendance 
Year 
Member 
Member Specialty 
Appointing 
Authority 
Average 
Attendance 
2015 
Member 6 
Tennessee Chain Drug 
Council Pharmacist 
Governor 
25% 
Member 9 
Practicing Pharmacist 
Speaker of the House 
of Representatives 
50% 
2016 
Member 6 
Tennessee Chain Drug 
Council Pharmacist 
Governor 
50% 
Member 9 
Pharmacist in the Distribution 
of Prescription Drugs in 
Long-Term Care Setting 
Speaker of the House 
of Representatives 
50% 
2017 
Member 5 
Family Practitioner 
Governor 
50% 
Member 6 
Tennessee Chain Drug 
Council Pharmacist 
Governor 
50% 
Member 9 
Pharmacist in the Distribution 
of Prescription Drugs in 
Long-Term Care Setting 
Speaker of the House 
of Representatives 
50% 
Member 13 
Ex-Officio Chair of Health 
Committee of the House of 
Representatives 
Speaker of the House 
of Representatives 
0% 
Member 14 
Ex-Officio Chair of the 
Senate Health and Welfare 
Committee 
Speaker of the Senate 
25% 
Source:  Auditor’s analysis of Pharmacy Advisory Committee attendance records. 
 
 
Vacant positions, low meeting attendance, and the lack of quorum impact the board’s and 
committee’s abilities to provide TennCare management with timely recommendations based on 
full representation of appointed or volunteer members.  The DUR Board’s and TPAC’s 
appointing authorities should ensure members appointed to serve are willing and able to attend 
the quarterly meetings.  Furthermore, they should contact the consistently absent members to 
determine their continued interest in serving.  If attendance issues persist, the appointing 
authorities should initiate the removal process. 


--- Page 95 ---
 
 
TennCare Operations 


--- Page 96 ---
 
79 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS__________________________________________ 
 
TennCare relies on information systems to support its critical business functions, 
including member management and claims processing.  TennCare’s Information Systems 
Division is responsible for systems development, operations, and maintenance.  We focused our 
audit work on TennCare’s information systems controls and operations, including management’s 
measures to ensure the security, accuracy, and reliability of its hardware and software; controls 
over systems development; and efforts to replace an obsolete mainframe with a new eligibility 
determination system.     
 
Audit Results 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare follow state information systems security policies regarding 
information systems controls?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
We determined that TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls 
in three specific areas (see Finding 6). 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make adequate progress in implementing its Tennessee 
Eligibility Determination System (TEDS)?  
 
 
Conclusion: 
As of July 2018, TennCare’s TEDS project was on schedule and within 
budget (see Observation 8). 
 
 
Finding 6 – TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls in three specific areas 
 
 
TennCare did not provide adequate internal controls in three specific areas related to two 
of its systems.  Ineffective implementation of internal controls increases the likelihood of errors, 
data loss, and inability to continue operations.  The details of this finding are confidential 
pursuant to Section 10-7-504(i), Tennessee Code Annotated.  We provided TennCare with 
detailed information regarding the specific conditions we identified, as well as the related 
criteria, causes, and our specific recommendations for improvement. 
 
Recommendation 
 
 
Management should remedy these conditions by promptly developing and consistently 
implementing internal controls in these areas.  Management should implement effective controls 
to ensure compliance with applicable requirements; assign staff to be responsible for ongoing 
monitoring of the risks and mitigating controls; and take action if deficiencies occur.  
 
Management’s Comment 
 
We concur.  Controls have been developed and described within existing policy and 
procedure documents.  Management will ensure all current policies, and controls described 
therein, are strictly enforced. 
 


--- Page 97 ---
 
80 
Observation 8 – After six years in development, TennCare’s new eligibility determination 
system is anticipated to launch in spring 2019, at a total cost of $475 million 
  
TennCare has traditionally relied on a disjointed and resource-heavy array of systems and 
manual processes to determine eligibility for Tennessee’s Medicaid health coverage program.  
The federal Affordable Care Act of 2010 introduced new Medicaid eligibility determination 
rules, changing the way states must assess and verify most applicants’ household income and 
composition, effective January 2014.  TennCare determined that the state’s legacy eligibility 
system, ACCENT,
45 could not be updated to accommodate the changes.  Since 2012, TennCare 
has collaborated with multiple vendors to develop and implement a new system, Tennessee 
Eligibility Determination System (TEDS), with project costs expected to reach approximately 
$475 million by September 2020.  As of June 2018, TennCare was conducting user acceptance 
testing on TEDS and was planning to implement the system later in the year.  Management 
expects to fully implement TEDS in spring 2019.  
 
Timeline 
 
See Table 19 for a timeline of key events in the TEDS development lifecycle below. 
 
Table 19 
TEDS Timeline 
Date 
Event 
March 2010 
U.S. Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act.  The Act included 
new rules for income-based Medicaid eligibility determination, 
effective January 2014.  The state determined that it would not be 
possible to update ACCENT, the legacy eligibility determination 
system, to comply with the new standards. 
December 2012 
TennCare contracted Northrop Grumman to coordinate, design, 
develop, and implement a new eligibility determination system 
known as TEDS.  
January 2014 
Effective date of the Affordable Care Act’s income-based Medicaid 
eligibility determination rules.  Because its existing eligibility 
system did not comply with the new rules and the new system was 
not yet complete, TennCare began relying on the federal healthcare 
marketplace to determine eligibility for income-based Medicaid in 
Tennessee. 
August 2014 
Due to management’s concerns about contractor performance, 
TennCare contracted KPMG, LLC, to review Northrop Grumman’s 
progress on TEDS.  
January 2015 
KPMG issued its review report that documented numerous 
problems.  KPMG’s findings included TEDS performance problems, 
insufficient 
project 
management, 
inadequate 
staff 
training, 
inadequate testing, and missing or imprecise key requirement 
                                                          
45 ACCENT stands for Automated Client Certification and Eligibility Network for Tennessee and is operated by the 
Tennessee Department of Human Services. 


--- Page 98 ---
 
81 
Date 
Event 
definitions.  TennCare and Northrup Grumman agreed to terminate 
their contract early.  TennCare paid Northrup Grumman $6.4 million 
for its work on the project.  
September 2015 
TennCare contracted KPMG to provide technical advisory services 
to support the completion of TEDS.  KPMG’s role included crucial 
startup and monitoring activities, such as helping TennCare request 
and review proposals from software developers.  
January 2016 
In a report to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services, TennCare projected full implementation of TEDS in 
September 2020.  
October 2016 
TennCare contracted Deloitte Consulting to design, develop, 
implement, and maintain TEDS.  
March 2017 
To reduce program risk, TennCare decided to change from a multi-
phase release to a single release schedule and projected a new TEDS 
implementation date of January 2019.   
April 2018 
TennCare began user acceptance testing of TEDS. 
May 2018 
Due to changes to pilot testing plans, TennCare changed TEDS’ 
expected implementation date to spring 2019.  
Fall 2018 
TennCare’s anticipated start of pilot testing. 
Spring 2019 
TennCare’s anticipated full implementation of TEDS.  Based on our 
June 18, 2018, interviews with personnel from the state’s Business 
Solutions Delivery group and the project’s independent verification 
and validation contractor, TEDS is on schedule to meet this target. 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
Budget 
 
TennCare funds the TEDS project with a combination of federal and state funds.  In 
Table 20, we present the TEDS budget for federal fiscal years 2015 through 2020.   
 
Table 20 
TEDS Design, Development, and Implementation Budget 
Federal 
Fiscal Year 
Federal Share 
State Share 
Total 
2015 
$4,266,284 
$474,032 
$4,740,316 
2016 
23,782,784 
2,684,198 
26,466,982 
2017 
72,753,143 
8,083,683 
80,836,826 
2018* 
122,267,676 
13,585,297 
135,852,973 
2019* 
153,861,818 
17,095,758 
170,957,575 
2020* 
50,953,587 
5,661,510 
56,615,097 
Total 
$427,885,292 
$47,584,477 
$475,469,769 
* Budget amounts for federal fiscal years 2018 through 2020 are projected. 
Source: TennCare management. 
 


--- Page 99 ---
 
82 
The design, development, and implementation budget does not include operations and 
maintenance costs for TEDS after implementation.  Based on our review of the budget 
projections TennCare submitted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, projected 
costs increased $164 million between January 2016 and February 2018.  According to the 
Information System Director and our review of the budget projections, the increased projected 
costs relate to  
 
 a longer pilot period established for the combined single release;  
 extended contracts with redetermination and call center vendors;  
 Strategic Technology Solutions’ infrastructure support; 
 implementation of an asset verification system; 
 additional systems testing support; and  
 additional post-implementation maintenance and operation costs due to the 
accelerated projected TEDS start date.   
 
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approved the increased budget.  The state’s 
share was approved at the Governor’s and legislative budget hearings. 
 
Conclusion 
 
TennCare has worked to implement a new eligibility determination system since 
December 2012.  During our current audit, we discovered that the original vendor did not meet 
the division’s performance and implementations standards.  In January 2015, the original vendor 
was replaced by the current vendor.  Despite this setback, TennCare has made adequate progress 
in implementing TEDS.  As of June 2018, projected costs for federal fiscal years 2015 through 
2020 are $475,469,769.  According to TennCare management, TEDS will provide a single 
eligibility system based on uniform rules to ensure consistency in eligibility determinations, 
provide member self-service options, and allow TennCare to better identify duplicate 
applications and enrollees. 
 
 
PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT_________________________________ 
 
General Background 
 
The Public Records Commission is required by state law to determine and order the 
proper disposition of the state’s public records and to direct the Tennessee Department of State’s 
Records Management Division to initiate any action necessary to establish the regulation of 
record holding and management in any state agency.  Section 10-7-301(6), Tennessee Code 
Annotated, defines public records as  
 
all documents, papers, letters, maps, books, photographs, microfilms, electronic 
data processing files and output, films, sound recordings, or other material, 
regardless of physical form or characteristics made or received pursuant to law or 


--- Page 100 ---
 
83 
ordinance or in connection with the transaction of official business by any 
governmental agency. 
 
 
Public officials are legally responsible for creating and maintaining records that 
document the transactions of government business.  These records provide evidence of 
government operations and accountability to citizens.  Public officials must maintain this 
information according to established records disposition authorizations (RDAs).  According to 
Section 10-7-509, Tennessee Code Annotated, 
 
The disposition of all state records shall occur only through the process of an 
approved records disposition authorization. Records authorized for destruction 
shall be disposed of according to the records disposition authorization and shall 
not be given to any unauthorized person, transferred to another agency, political 
subdivision, or private or semiprivate institution. 
 
RDAs describe the public record, retention period, and destruction method for each record type 
under an agency’s authority.  Upon destructing a public record, an agency must submit a 
certificate of destruction to the Records Management Division.   
 
In March 2013, the division developed an online application to catalog and maintain 
RDAs.  The Public Records Commission asked all state agencies to amend or retire RDAs that 
existed at that time, and to create new ones for public records currently in use.  
 
TennCare’s Records Management Process 
 
Beginning in August 2017, in addition to having a Records Officer, TennCare executive-
level staff identified at least one person in each unit to serve as a records contact.  Currently, 
TennCare has approximately 30 staff members at all levels of the organization who meet 
quarterly to receive updates on records management practices, RDA progress, and other records 
developments.  TennCare is currently pursuing plans to review all records-related policies and 
make changes as needed; it is also considering physical space changes that will facilitate more 
effective records management and storage.  Once management revises records management 
policies, employees at all levels will be trained on the revised policies at the level and depth of 
records management knowledge that is appropriate for their position and job responsibilities.  
According to management, it will ensure that policies align with the governing Public Records 
Commission guidelines and that management takes proper actions agency-wide to retain and 
protect records that TennCare creates or stores.  
 
In November 2017, the Records Management Division completed a records assessment at 
TennCare.  The purpose of the assessment was to  
 
 examine TennCare’s records management process;  
 identify the RDAs used and if new ones were needed; and  
 assess the volume of records for each RDA.   
 


--- Page 101 ---
 
84 
The division issued the assessment on November 17, 2017, and noted 18 recommendations.   
 
Audit Results  
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare management comply with the Public Records 
Commission’s 2013 request to review all RDAs? 
 
Conclusion: 
While TennCare management did not fully comply with the 
commission’s 2013 request, by the end of audit fieldwork, management 
had updated 50% of the RDAs and submitted an additional 12 RDAs to 
the commission for review at its October 2018 meeting (see 
Observation 9). 
 
2. Audit Objective: 
Did TennCare management implement the Records Management 
Division’s assessment recommendations? 
 
Conclusion: 
While TennCare management had not implemented all the 
recommendations, 
management 
completed 
17% 
of 
the 
recommendations and had partially completed the remaining 83% of 
the recommendations by the end of fieldwork on August 2018 (see 
Observation 9). 
 
 
Observation 9 – Management is making strides to update records disposition authorizations  
 
TennCare’s Records Disposition Authorizations (RDAs) 
 
During our review of TennCare’s process to manage its public records, we determined 
that management did not have 15 of 30 RDAs (50%) approved by the Public Record 
Commission (PRC) as of May 30, 2018.  After early discussions with management, TennCare 
made progress to address its outstanding RDAs.  As of May 30, 2018, near the end of fieldwork, 
12 RDAs have been updated and are scheduled to be reviewed by the PRC in October 2018.  
Management has not submitted the remaining 3 RDAs to the PRC for approval.  See Table 21. 
 
Table 21 
Status of Outstanding RDAs as of May 2018 
Item # 
RDA # 
Title 
Status 
1 
673 
Medicaid Recipients Correspondence 
Management Action Pending 
2 
1047 
Utilization Control Independent Professional 
Reviews and Medical Reviews for Long-
Term Care Facilities 
Scheduled for PRC Review  
3 
1201 
Retired: Medicaid Quality Control Records 
(records series merged with RDA 2016) 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
4 
2035 
Independent Laboratory Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
5 
2036 
Community Health Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 


--- Page 102 ---
 
85 
Item # 
RDA # 
Title 
Status 
6 
2037 
Home- and Community-based Services 
Waiver Program Records 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
7 
2038 
Third-party Liability Recovery Files 
Management Action Pending 
8 
2039 
Patient Care Review Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
9 
2040 
Provider Integrity Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
10 
2041 
Recipient Case Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
11 
2045 
Legal Appeal Files 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
12 
2578 
Retired: TennCare Appeals (records series is 
now covered under RDA 2045) 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
13 
2852 
TennCare Reports 
Management Action Pending 
14 
2909 
Medicaid Overpayment Claims (PA68) 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
15 
2977 
Home- and Community-based Services 
Medicaid Waiver Records 
Scheduled for PRC Review 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
Status of Implementing Public Records Assessment Recommendations 
 
In November 2017, the Records Management Division performed a public records 
assessment and made 18 recommendations to TennCare.  As of May 30, 2018, management 
indicated it had implemented 3 recommendations and had partially implemented the remaining 
15.  We did not verify their statement since management was still in the process of implementing 
all recommendations.  We will include management’s corrective actions in the next audit.  See 
Table 22. 
 
Table 22 
Partially Implemented Records Management Division Assessment Recommendations  
As of May 2018 
Item # 
Recommendation 
1 
Recommend the Long-Term Services and Support Division review the records that is 
stored [sic] under the [Statewide RDA] SW17 to determine which records can be 
safely purged, which records should be sent to the Tennessee State Library & 
Archives, and which records should be classified under a different RDA. 
2 
Recommend the RDA 2040 be updated to reflect any changes in business practices or 
legal statute. [See Item 9 in Table 21.] 
3 
Recommend the Program Integrity change their labeling to reflect that the 
investigation files are not kept under SW41 [SW41 is the statewide RDA for fraud 
investigation files]. 
4 
Recommend a new RDA that governs the retention for financial change requests. 
5 
Recommend a new RDA that governs the retention of consultation records that meets 
the business practices and legal needs for the Health Care Information Division. 
6 
Recommend the RDA 2578 be updated to match the current business practices.  [See 
Item 12 in Table 21.] 
7 
Recommend a new RDA to govern the retention of legislative records that are 
produced by the Legislative Division. 


--- Page 103 ---
 
86 
Item # 
Recommendation 
8 
Recommend the Long-Term Services and Support Division review and purge all 
working papers that no longer have administrative value and that are past the 
mandated retention. 
9 
Recommend the RDA 2852 be revised to meet the current standards and business 
practices.  [See Item 13 in Table 21.] 
10 
Recommend the Medical/Medical Oversight Division review their training and 
reference materials to determine if any of them can be destroyed. 
11 
Recommend the Medical/Technical Solutions Unit complete the sorting and 
organizing of the divisional working papers that were involved in the legal hold 
which has expired. 
12 
Recommend a new RDA to govern TennCare legal records that are not covered under 
any agency RDA. 
13 
Recommend the Office of the General Counsel destroy records that were involved in 
the legal holds that have expired. 
14 
Recommend a determination be made on the legal liability and business needs as to 
how long Pharmacy pricing records should be kept. 
15 
Recommend the files on the 4th Floor file room be reviewed to determine which 
records can be safely purged, which records should be sent to the Tennessee State 
Library & Archives, and which records need to be sorted and properly filed or sent to 
Richards & Richards. 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
 
Management should continue to work toward updating the three outstanding RDAs and 
should implement the remaining recommendations from the Records Management Division’s 
public records assessment as soon as practical. 


--- Page 104 ---
 
87 
APPENDICES 
 
APPENDIX 1 
Methodologies to Achieve Audit Objectives 
 
PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS___________________________________________ 
 
CHOICES AND EMPLOYMENT AND COMMUNITY FIRST CHOICES 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare correct the December 2014 finding by distributing easy-to-
understand information about the CHOICES application process?  
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare address the concerns that emerged before, during, and after 
the launch of ECF CHOICES? 
To determine whether TennCare corrected the December 2014 finding by distributing 
easy-to-understand information about the CHOICES application process, and whether TennCare 
addressed the concerns that emerged before, during, and after the launch of ECF CHOICES, we 
interviewed TennCare’s Deputy Chief of Long-Term Services and Supports; the Assistant 
Deputy Chief of Policy, Contracts and Compliance; the Assistant Deputy Chief of Clinical 
Operations; and the Deputy Director of Member Services for the Compliance and Policy Group. 
 
We reviewed program policies, contracts, forms, and benefit information; correspondence 
to applicants and enrollees; education and outreach materials; enrollment and outcome data and 
reports; and quality monitoring tools. 
 
We measured correspondence relayed to CHOICES and ECF CHOICES applicants and 
enrollees using the Gunning Fog and Flesch-Kincaid readability tests to determine if they were 
easy to understand.  
 
We obtained communication logs and outreach outcomes for the 14 individuals 
potentially eligible for ECF CHOICES noted in the November 2017 sunset performance audit.  
We compared the logs to communication requirements prescribed in the contract between 
TennCare and the managed care organizations. 
PROVIDER DATABASE 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare resolve the problems with the provider data to improve 
completeness and accuracy?  
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare develop a formal process to track registration processing 
times? 
 
We interviewed the Provider Services Director and the Assistant Director to gain an 
understanding of the Provider Database Management System (PDMS) and the registration 
process.  
 


--- Page 105 ---
 
88 
From a population of all 13,099 active providers (who registered using paper or PDMS) 
from November 1, 2014, to March 27, 2018, we tested a nonstatistical, random sample of 60 
providers and reviewed each provider’s information in PDMS, interChange, and the Tennessee 
Department of Health’s licensure verification database to determine if the data in the three 
systems was complete and accurate.  
 
From a population of 13,851 active providers that staff processed in PDMS from 
November 1, 2014, to May 30, 2018,
46 we tested a nonstatistical, random sample of 25 active 
providers to determine if management approved the registration within a reasonable time. 
 
 
PAYMENT REFORM_______________________________________________ 
 
EPISODES OF CARE 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s episodes of care strategy for payment reform positively 
change the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee?  
 
To gain an understanding of TennCare’s episodes of care strategy, we interviewed 
TennCare’s Director of Strategic Planning, management staff at the managed care organizations, 
and TennCare providers.  We obtained and reviewed five other states’ (Colorado, Maine, 
Minnesota, Ohio, and Vermont) Medicaid State Innovation Models Initiative; Tennessee’s State 
Innovation Models Grant award; vendor contracts; monitoring documents; provider reports, 
which were reviewed for withholdings and bonuses; quality metrics; budgets; and estimated cost 
savings calculations to determine if TennCare developed and implemented a strategy to address 
payment reform, including a process to measure strategy effectiveness.  
 
LONG-TERM SERVICES AND SUPPORTS AND PRIMARY CARE TRANSFORMATION 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s long-term services and supports’ payment reform strategy 
positively change the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s primary care transformation strategy positively change 
the way healthcare is provided in Tennessee? 
 
To gain an understanding of TennCare’s long-term services and supports strategy, we 
interviewed TennCare’s Chief of Long-Term Services and Supports.  We obtained and reviewed 
the Quality Improvement in Long-Term Services and Supports nursing facility quality 
framework; stakeholder nursing facility quality surveys; TennCare’s Plan for Improving 
Enhanced Respiratory Care Quality; the Enhanced Respiratory Care Operations Manual; and the 
spending and utilization expenditures for fiscal year 2015 and 2016 for vent weaning, chronic 
vent, tracheal suctioning, and secretion management to determine if TennCare developed and 
implemented a strategy to address payment reform and if TennCare developed a process to 
measure strategy effectiveness.  
 
                                                          
46 The difference in population sizes for the active provider lists was due to the timing of our testwork. 


--- Page 106 ---
 
89 
To gain an understanding of TennCare’s primary care transformation strategy, we 
interviewed TennCare’s Director of Strategic Planning.  We obtained and reviewed the 2017 and 
2018 TennCare Patient Centered Medical Home: Provider Operating Manual and the 2017 and 
2018 Tennessee Health Link Provider Operating Manual to determine if TennCare developed 
and implemented a strategy to address payment reform and if TennCare developed a process to 
measure this strategy’s effectiveness.  
 
 
PROGRAM INTEGRITY____________________________________________ 
 
MEMBER ELIGIBILITY 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make improper payments for deceased Medicaid members? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make improper payments for incarcerated Medicaid 
members? 
 
3. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make duplicate payments for Medicaid members with 
multiple identification numbers? 
 
For use in all our member eligibility objectives, we obtained TennCare’s membership 
repository as of January 25, 2018.  We also obtained TennCare’s payment records comprising 
capitation and fee-for-service (institutional, physician, dental, and pharmacy) claims data for the 
period July 1, 2016, to December 31, 2017.   
 
To determine whether TennCare made improper payments for deceased Medicaid 
members, we cross-matched TennCare’s membership and payment records to the Tennessee 
Department of Health’s vital statistics records.  When the records contained conflicting dates of 
death, we obtained death certificates and researched obituaries to establish the correct date.  Our 
match identified 3,058 capitation payments, totaling $4,815,553; 100 fee-for-service physician 
claims, totaling $868; 1 dental claim, totaling $119; and 93 pharmacy claims, totaling $12,959, 
paid on behalf of members after their date of death.  We selected a stratified sample of 60 
capitation cross-match results, totaling $249,483, and the entire population of fee-for-service 
physician, dental, and pharmacy cross-match results.  We reviewed the selected payments in 
TennCare’s interChange
47 system and interviewed management to determine whether TennCare 
recouped the improper payments.  Our capitation testwork disclosed that TennCare did not 
recoup 1 of 60 payments sampled (2%).  We projected the 2% error rate from our testwork to our 
overall capitation cross-match results to estimate total unrecouped capitation payments for 
deceased members.   
      
To determine whether TennCare made improper payments for incarcerated Medicaid 
members, we cross-matched TennCare’s membership and payment records to the Tennessee 
Department of Correction’s inmate population and movement data for the period July 1, 2016, 
through December 31, 2017.  When incarceration dates conflicted between sources, we contacted 
                                                          
47 interChange is TennCare’s system for managing members and claims. 


--- Page 107 ---
 
90 
the Department of Correction’s Detainer Administrator to validate the correct dates.  Our match 
identified 8,736 capitation payments, totaling $1,425,373; 996 fee-for-service physician claims, 
totaling $9,702; 456 fee-for-service institutional claims, totaling $97,189; 5 dental claims, 
totaling $1,609; and 1,485 pharmacy claims, totaling $129,144, paid on behalf of members 
during their incarceration.   
 
We selected random samples of  
 
 60 capitation cross-match results, totaling $17,358;  
 
 25 members with 240 fee-for-service physician cross-match results, totaling $2,725; 
and 
  
 25 members with 166 pharmacy cross-match results, totaling $19,396.   
 
In addition to the random samples specified above, we also tested the entire population of 
fee-for-service institutional and dental cross-match results.  We then reviewed the payments in 
TennCare’s interChange system and interviewed management to determine whether TennCare 
recouped the improper payments.  Our testwork disclosed that TennCare did not recoup 22 of 60 
capitation payments (37%), 43 of 240 fee-for-service physician claims (18%), and 102 of 166 
pharmacy claims sampled (61%).  We projected the error rates from our testwork to our overall 
capitation, fee-for-service physician, and pharmacy cross-match results to estimate total 
unrecouped payments for incarcerated members. 
 
To determine whether TennCare made duplicate payments for Medicaid members with 
multiple identification numbers, we analyzed Social Security numbers in TennCare’s 
membership repository to find members with more than one active identification number.  We 
cross-matched those members to the payment records and located 705 duplicate payments, 
totaling $221,809, that TennCare made on behalf of those members during the period July 1, 
2016, through December 31, 2017. We reviewed the payments in TennCare’s interChange 
system and interviewed management to determine whether TennCare identified and recouped the 
duplicate payments. 
 
LONG TERM CARE SERVICES 
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare ensure the electronic visit verification system was designed to 
mitigate the risks relating to members receiving long-term care services? 
 
To determine whether TennCare ensured the electronic visit verification system was 
designed to mitigate risks relating to members receiving long-term care services, we interviewed 
TennCare’s Chief of Long-Term Services and Supports; Deputy Chief of Long-Term Services 
and Supports; Assistant Deputy Chief of Long-Term Services and Supports; and Director of 
Long-Term Services and Supports and Dual Eligible Initiatives and Operations.  We 
administered an email questionnaire to Amerigroup’s Director of Special Program Operations; 
BlueCare’s CHOICES Program Manager; and UnitedHealthcare’s Executive Director of Long-
Term Services and Supports.  We also interviewed 13 TennCare members who received home-
based care services. 
 


--- Page 108 ---
 
91 
We reviewed federal and state laws, regulations, policies, and procedures pertaining to 
personal and attendant care services for TennCare members.    
 
 
We obtained the population of late and missed visit reports for CHOICES for the period 
January 1, 2014, through February 28, 2018, and for ECF CHOICES for the period June 1, 2017, 
through February 28, 2018.  We tabulated the report data and calculated overall and average on-
time, late, and missed personal and attendant care visits in each program. 
 
We obtained from TennCare’s managed care contractors (MCCs) the population of 
electronic visit verification records associated with Current Procedural Terminology codes
48 
S5125 (attendant care services) and T1019 (personal care services) for the period July 1, 2016, 
through March 31, 2018.  The population consisted of 949,069 Amerigroup records; 2,064,204 
BlueCare records; and 1,511,052 UnitedHealthcare records.  We summarized the records by 
check-in type and by check-out type.  
 
 
We added calculated fields to the data to flag groups of records with the same date, same 
worker, and different members.  Within each group, we calculated the duration of each visit and 
the number of minutes from the end of one visit to the start of the next visit.  We then identified 
visits longer than 15 minutes that also overlapped the same worker’s next visit by at least 15 
minutes.  
 
 
Our data analysis disclosed 2,131 groups with 4,317 potentially overlapping visits in the 
Amerigroup data; 5,485 groups with 11,768 potentially overlapping visits in the 
UnitedHealthcare data; and 13,270 groups with 34,142 potentially overlapping visits in the 
BlueCare data.  
 
We selected a random nonstatistical sample of 60 groups of potentially overlapping visits 
from each MCC for testwork.  We examined interChange, TennCare’s Medicaid management 
information system, to determine whether providers claimed payment for services to different 
members attributed to the same worker at overlapping times.  We provided our results to 
TennCare’s Long Term Services and Supports unit to research the potential causes of the 
overlapping visits. 
 
PROVIDER SCREENING 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its managed care contractors (MCCs) make improper 
payments to providers with invalid service addresses? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to providers with 
expired, inactive, or revoked licenses? 
 
3. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to providers 
excluded from participation in Medicaid? 
 
                                                          
48 Current Procedural Terminology codes are the standard for documenting and billing healthcare services in the 
United States.  


--- Page 109 ---
 
92 
4. Audit Objective: Did TennCare or its MCCs make improper payments to deceased 
providers? 
 
For use in all our provider screening objectives, we obtained active provider enrollment 
files as of April 24, 2018, for each of TennCare’s managed care contractors.  The files consisted 
of 66,404 Amerigroup providers; 102,042 BlueCare providers; 2,047 DentaQuest providers; 
98,184 TennCare Select providers; and 101,612 UnitedHealthcare providers.  
 
To determine whether TennCare or its MCCs made improper payments to providers with 
invalid service addresses, we combined the provider enrollment files for each MCC into one file.  
In this file, we summarized the data by street address, city, state, and zip code in a pivot table, to 
produce a list of unique street addresses for validation.  We cross-matched the list of unique 
addresses to a United States Postal Service Coding Accuracy Support System-certified address 
data validation tool.  We analyzed the cross-match output to identify addresses that did not pass 
validation and those assigned to a Commercial Mail Receiving Agency.
49 
 
 
 
To determine whether TennCare or its MCCs made improper payments to providers with 
expired, inactive, or revoked licenses, we filtered the provider enrollment files to show only 
physicians (and dentists, for DentaQuest) and removed duplicate records.  We analyzed the file 
to identify physician records with an empty license number data field.  We also filtered physician 
records to only include those with a Tennessee service address and matched the physicians’ 
license numbers and names to the Tennessee Department of Health’s Health Professional 
Licensing Reports for the Boards of Medical Examiners, Osteopathic Examination, and 
Dentistry.  If the cross-match identified physicians with expired, inactive, or revoked licenses, 
we searched TennCare’s interChange system for claims filed for each physician while his or her 
license was not in good standing. 
 
 
 
To determine whether TennCare or its MCCs made improper payments to deceased 
providers, we cross-matched the physician records to the Tennessee Department of Health’s vital 
statistics records.  When dates of death conflicted between TennCare’s records and the 
Tennessee Department of Health’s data, we obtained death certificates and researched obituaries 
to establish the correct date of death.  When our cross-match identified deceased physicians, we 
searched TennCare’s interChange system for claims filed for each physician for services 
rendered after his or her date of death. 
 
To determine whether TennCare or its MCCs made improper payments to providers 
excluded from participation in Medicaid, we cross-matched the physician records to the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General’s List of Excluded 
Individuals and Entities as of April 18, 2018.  Our cross-match did not identify any physicians in 
TennCare’s provider network that had been excluded from participation in Medicaid. 
 
 
                                                          
49 A Commercial Mail Receiving Agency is a private mailbox operator.  The agency provides customers with a 
mailing address and accepts mail and other deliveries on behalf of those customers.   


--- Page 110 ---
 
93 
NON-EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION 
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare members use non-emergency medical transportation services to 
access covered services? 
 
To determine whether TennCare members used non-emergency medical transportation 
services to access covered services, we interviewed both the Director of Managed Care 
Compliance/Non-Emergency Medical Transportation Program Manager and the Compliance 
Administrator.  We reviewed contracts, policies and procedures, provider monitoring plans, and 
quality assurance plans relating to non-emergency medical transportation services.  
 
We reviewed and analyzed the managed care contractors’ (MCC) non-emergency 
medical transportation reports for January 2016 through February 2018.  These reports included 
issues such as transportation broker call centers, claims payment accuracy, member complaints, 
pick-up and delivery standards, post-payment reviews, post-transportation validation checks, pre-
transportation validation checks, prompt payment, and utilization. 
 
We obtained all paid managed care and fee-for-service medical, behavioral, pharmacy, 
and dental claims for the period July 1, 2016, through December 31, 2017.  We also obtained the 
population of 5,267,524 non-emergency medical transportation claims the MCCs received from 
their transportation brokers for services provided between July 1, 2016, and June 30, 2017. 
 
We cross-matched the population of non-emergency medical transportation claims to the 
managed care and fee-for-service medical, behavioral, pharmacy, and dental claims.  Our match 
yielded 300,511 transportation claims that did not match to a corresponding healthcare claim for 
the same date of service:  
 
 102,427 for Amerigroup,  
 
 158,060 for BlueCare, and  
 
 40,024 for UnitedHealthcare.   
 
We compared the claims to TennCare’s membership repository to identify claims filed by 
members with dual Medicaid and Medicare coverage.  We also tested a nonstatistical, random 
sample of 60 claims for each MCC and reviewed the claims in interChange to manually verify 
whether a healthcare claim existed for the same date of service as the non-emergency medical 
transportation claim.  For claims we could not validate, we contacted the relevant MCC for an 
explanation. 
 
 
ELIGIBILITY REDETERMINATIONS________________________________ 
 
Audit Objective:  Did TennCare appropriately redetermine members’ eligibility for Medicare 
Savings Program benefits? 
 


--- Page 111 ---
 
94 
 
To determine if TennCare appropriately redetermined members’ eligibility for Medicare 
Savings Program benefits, we interviewed the Eligibility Administrator and reviewed working 
papers from a prior audit interview with the Director of Eligibility Audit and Compliance.  We 
also reviewed the TennCare redetermination vendor contract and associated amendments, and 
TennCare’s Medicare Savings Program eligibility and appeal policies and procedures. 
 
We obtained a list of 460,684 members TennCare submitted to its redetermination vendor 
between July 1, 2017, and August 9, 2018.  We also obtained a list of 126,231 member appeal 
requests recorded in TennCare’s Tennessee Eligibility Appeals Management System (TEAMS) 
between July 1, 2017, and August 8, 2018, and matched these two files and filtered on eligibility 
category and date to identify 737 Medicare Savings Program members subject to redetermination 
between July 1, 2017, and August 9, 2018, who filed an appeal with TennCare between May 1, 
2018, and August 9, 2018.  From this list, we haphazardly selected a sample of 60 Medicare 
Savings Program members for testwork.  We reviewed the members’ documentation in the 
vendor’s system and in TennCare’s interChange system, and the members’ appeals 
documentation in TEAMS.  
 
 
PROVIDER NETWORK ACCESSIBILITY____________________________ 
 
Audit Objective: Did TennCare’s managed care contractors (MCCs) meet network accessibility 
standards for physician specialists? 
 
To determine whether TennCare’s MCCs met network accessibility standards for 
physician specialists, we reviewed the standards and interviewed the Director of Provider 
Services and the Assistant Director of Provider Services.  We obtained active provider 
enrollment files as of April 24, 2018, for each MCC.  We counted the number of physicians in 
each healthcare specialty in each managed care network.  We then obtained TennCare’s active 
membership repository as of March 31, 2018, and counted the adult non-dual
50 members and 
child non-dual members in each managed care health plan.  We divided the number of physicians 
in each specialty by the number of members to determine the ratio of TennCare members to 
specialist providers in each managed care plan.  We compared our results to TennCare’s 
accessibility standards and the results reported in the external quality review organization’s 2017 
report.  We also analyzed TennCare’s physician specialist accessibility standards to determine 
the minimum number of physicians needed in each specialty to satisfy the requirements.  
 
Using Esri ArcGIS geospatial software, we mapped the addresses of TennCare members 
and each managed care plan’s physician specialists.  We used the Network Analyst extension in 
ArcGIS to generate 60-mile and 90-mile travel distance perimeters around each specialist.  For 
every managed care plan and every specialty, we calculated the percentage of plan members 
located outside the 60-mile and 90-mile travel distance perimeters.  We analyzed our results to 
determine whether the maximum travel distance to a physician specialist was 60 miles for at 
least 75% of non-dual members and 90 miles for all non-dual members, as required by 
                                                          
50 A non-dual member has TennCare coverage only, whereas a dual member has both TennCare and Medicare 
coverage. 


--- Page 112 ---
 
95 
TennCare’s accessibility standards.  We also compared our results to those reported in the 
external quality review organization’s 2017 report. 
 
 
OPIOID EPIDEMIC________________________________________________ 
 
TENNCARE’S OPIOID STRATEGY 
 
Audit Objective: Has TennCare addressed the state’s opioid epidemic for its members? 
 
To gain an understanding of TennCare’s opioid strategies, we interviewed TennCare’s 
Chief Medical Officer, BlueCare’s Chief Medical Officer, and the Director of Children’s Health 
for the Tennessee Justice Center to determine TennCare’s strategies for the opioid epidemic.  
 
 
We obtained opioid research studies conducted by state and federal agencies.  We 
obtained and reviewed TennCare’s policies, presentations, and provider correspondence to 
determine if TennCare developed and implemented strategies to address the opioid epidemic 
involving its members and if TennCare developed a process to measure the effectiveness of the 
strategies.   
 
TENNCARE DRUG UTILIZATION REVIEW BOARD AND TENNCARE PHARMACY 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC fulfill the required duties specified in the 
respective regulation or statute? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC meet the membership composition 
requirements? 
 
3. Audit Objective: Did the DUR Board and TPAC satisfy the meeting frequency 
requirement? 
 
We reviewed the DUR Board’s minutes for the quarterly meetings held from March 8, 
2016, to March 6, 2018, and the TPAC committee minutes for meetings held from February 18, 
2016, to November 14, 2017.  We also interviewed 6 of 11 board members and 5 of 16 
committee members by haphazardly selecting a sample of members as of May 3, 2018.   
 
We compared the requirements in the federal regulations to the composition of the board 
from 2015 through 2017.  For the committee, we compared the requirements in state statute to 
the composition of the committee from 2015 through 2017.   
 
Using the board and committee minutes, we calculated average annual attendance rates 
for each active board and committee member.    
 
 


--- Page 113 ---
 
96 
TENNCARE OPERATIONS_________________________________________ 
 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did TennCare follow state information systems security policies regarding 
information systems controls? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare make adequate progress in implementing its Tennessee 
Eligibility Determination System (TEDS)? 
 
 
To determine whether TennCare made adequate progress in implementing TEDS, we 
interviewed TennCare’s Chief Information Officer, the Director of Program Management, the 
Director of Member Services, and the Information Systems Director.  We also interviewed 
Strategic Technology Solutions’ Senior Enterprise Project Director and TennCare’s independent 
verification and validation contractor’s Project Manager.  We reviewed vendor contracts, 
planning documents, system implementation schedules, projected and actual budgets, invoices, 
staffing patterns, status reports, and correspondence relating to the TEDS project. 
 
PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT 
 
1. Audit Objective: Did 
TennCare 
management 
comply 
with 
the 
Public 
Records 
Commission’s 
2013 
request 
to 
review 
all 
records 
disposition 
authorizations (RDAs)? 
 
2. Audit Objective: Did TennCare management implement the Records Management 
Division’s assessment recommendations? 
 
To gain an understanding of TennCare’s records management process, we interviewed 
the division’s Records Officer and reviewed the Secretary of State’s Records Management Best 
Practices and Procedures dated August 1, 2015.  We reviewed a list of the division’s RDAs, as 
well as the division’s active and retired RDAs, to determine if the division complied with the 
Public Records Commission’s 2013 request to review all division RDAs.  To determine if 
TennCare management implemented the Records Management Division’s recommendations, we 
reviewed the division’s assessment dated November 17, 2017, and discussed the 
recommendations with TennCare’s Records Officer.   
 
 
 


--- Page 114 ---
 
97 
APPENDIX 2 
TennCare Members by Senate Legislative District  
As of March 31, 2018 
 
 
Source: Auditor-prepared based on TennCare’s membership repository as of March 31, 2018. 
 
 


--- Page 115 ---
 
98 
APPENDIX 3 
TennCare Members by House of Representatives Legislative District  
As of March 31, 2018 
 
 
 
Source: Auditor-prepared based on TennCare’s membership repository as of March 31, 2018. 


--- Page 116 ---
 
99 
APPENDIX 4 
48 Episodes of Care as of April 2018 
Design 
Year
51  
Performance 
Period
52  
Wave 
Episode 
2013 
2015 
1 
Perinatal 
Asthma acute exacerbation 
Total joint replacement 
2014 
2016 
2 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease – acute 
exacerbation 
Colonoscopy 
Cholecystectomy 
Acute percutaneous coronary intervention 
Non-acute percutaneous coronary intervention 
2015 
2016 
3 
Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy  
Respiratory infection 
Pneumonia 
Urinary tract infection – outpatient 
Urinary tract infection – inpatient 
2015 
2016 
4 
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder  
Congestive heart failure – acute exacerbation 
Oppositional defiant disorder 
Coronary artery bypass grafting  
Valve repair and replacement 
Bariatric surgery 
2016 
2017 
5 
Breast biopsy 
Otitis media 
Tonsillectomy 
2016 
2017 
6 
Skin and soft tissue infections 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
Pancreatitis 
Diabetes acute exacerbation 
2017 
2019 
7 
Spinal fusion 
Spinal decompression (without spinal fusion) 
Femur/pelvic fracture 
Knee arthroscopy 
Ankle non-operative injuries 
Wrist non-operative injuries 
Shoulder non-operative injuries 
Knee non-operative injuries 
Back/neck pain 
 
 
 
Acute seizure 
                                                          
51 The design year is when the episode was designed, but not put into operation yet. 
52 The performance period is when the first year of claims data is analyzed and is based on the prior year’s claims. 


--- Page 117 ---
 
100 
Design 
Year
51  
Performance 
Period
52  
Wave 
Episode 
2017 
2019 
8 
Syncope 
Acute gastroenteritis 
Bronchiolitis 
Pediatric pneumonia 
2017 
2019 
8 
Colposcopy 
Hysterectomy 
Gastrointestinal obstruction 
Appendectomy 
Hernia repair 
2018 
2020 
9 
Kidney and urinary tract stones 
Cystourethroscopy 
Source: TennCare management. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 118 ---
 
101 
APPENDIX 5 
2018 Episodes of Care Revisions as of September 2018 
Overview 
We included an overview of some of the 2018 episodes of care revisions. These revisions 
occurred in September 2018, which occurred outside the scope of our fieldwork.  Therefore, our 
results are based on the 2016 thresholds. 
Quarterback received 50% of the difference between the commendable threshold and its average 
risk-adjusted episode, multiplied by the quarterback’s number of valid episodes. 
Quarterback who owes a risk sharing payment (withholding) pays 50% of the difference between 
the acceptable threshold and its average risk-adjusted episode spend, multiplied by the 
quarterback’s number of valid episodes. 
The gain sharing limit is now designed to cap the amount of rewards a quarterback can receive to 
prevent incentivizing underutilization and inappropriate care.  The MCOs and TennCare work 
together to define and set the gain sharing limit. 
Source:  TennCare management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 119 ---
 
102 
APPENDIX 6 
Perinatal Episode as of January 12, 2017 
Overview 
The perinatal episode revolves around women with low- to medium-risk pregnancies. 
The trigger event is the birth of a live infant. 
All pregnancy-related care, including prenatal visits, lab tests, ED visits, medications, 
ultrasound imaging, delivery of the baby, and post-partum care, is included. 
A complete perinatal episode begins 40 weeks (280 days) prior to the delivery and ends 
60 days after the mother is discharged from the hospital following the birth of her infant. 
 
Assigning Accountability 
The quarterback is the provider or provider group that is responsible for the delivery. 
 
Exclusion Examples 
Members in active cancer management. 
Members with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
If the rendering provider of the trigger claim is a maternal fetal medicine specialist (a 
high-risk pregnancy expert).   
 
Measuring Quality (Linked to Bonus Sharing Payments) 
Screening for HIV 
Screening for Group B streptococcus. 
C-section 
 
Measuring Quality (Not Linked to Bonus Sharing Payments) 
Screening for gestational diabetes 
Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria 
Screening rate for hepatitis B specific antigens 
Tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis vaccination rate 
Source: TennCare management.  
 
 
 
 


--- Page 120 ---
 
103 
APPENDIX 7 
Glossary 
applicant 
A person who has applied for TennCare but whose application has not been approved or denied. 
assisted care living facility 
Community-based residential alternative to nursing facility care that provides and/or arranges for 
daily meals, personal care, homemaker, and other supportive services, or healthcare including 
medication oversight (to the extent permitted under state law) in a home-like environment to 
persons who need assistance with activities of daily living. 
at risk – managed care organization (MCO) 
When an MCO is “at risk,” it is responsible for paying all covered services needed by its 
members. The state pays the MCO a monthly fee for each enrollee assigned to its plan. 
attendant care 
Hands-on assistance, safety monitoring, and supervision for a CHOICES member who, due to 
age and/or physical disability, needs more extensive assistance than can be provided through 
intermittent personal care visits. 
backup plan 
A written plan specifying how a CHOICES member’s needs will be met in situations when 
regularly scheduled home- and community-based services (HCBS) providers are unavailable or 
do not arrive as scheduled. A backup plan is a required component of the plan of care for all 
CHOICES members receiving companion care or non-residential HCBS in their own homes. 
buprenorphine 
A partial agonist that suppresses opioid withdrawal symptoms for individuals in treatment for 
opioid use disorder. 
capitation payment 
The fee paid by the state to a managed care contractor operating under a risk-based contract for 
each enrollee covered by the plan for the provision of medical services. Capitation payments are 
made whether or not the enrollee uses services and without regard to the amount of services used 
during the payment period. 
care coordination tool 
Tool that identifies and tracks the closure of gaps in care linked to quality measures; allows 
providers to view their member panel and members’ risk scores; and allows users to see when 
one of their attributed members has had an admission, discharge, or transfer from a hospital and 
track follow-up actions. 
case 
A household unit that includes one or more persons who are TennCare-eligible. 


--- Page 121 ---
 
104 
Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) 
A state-federal program to provide health benefits to uninsured, low-income children.  Also 
known as CoverKids in Tennessee. 
CHOICES (TennCare CHOICES in Long‐term Services and Supports) 
A program that provides long-term services and supports benefits to enrollees meeting the 
CHOICES program criteria through the use of the provider network of TennCare managed care 
contractors. 
consumer‐directed worker (worker) 
An individual who has been hired by a CHOICES member participating in consumer direction of 
home- and community-based services (HCBS) or his representative to provide one or more 
eligible HCBS to the member. 
consumer direction of eligible home‐ and community‐based services (HCBS) 
Under the CHOICES program, the opportunity for a member assessed to need specified types of 
HCBS to direct and manage (or to have a representative direct and manage) certain aspects of the 
provision of such services—primarily, the hiring, firing, and day-to-day supervision of 
consumer-directed workers in delivering the needed service(s). The services eligible for 
consumer direction are attendant care, personal care visits, in-home respite care, and companion. 
Controlled Substance Monitoring Database (CSMD) 
The Tennessee Department of Health operates the Controlled System Monitoring Database 
(CSMD), which tracks controlled substances, including opioids, prescribed and dispensed in 
Tennessee.  Physicians and pharmacists use the CSMD to review patient opioid-use histories to 
ensure that dosage limits have not been exceeded and to guard against patients misusing or 
attempting to fraudulently obtain opioids. 
dual eligible 
An individual who is eligible for both Medicare and TennCare, or who qualifies for TennCare 
assistance with Medicare cost sharing. 
electronic visit verification system  
An electronic system in which CHOICES caregivers can check in at the beginning and check out 
at the end of each period of service delivery.  The system monitors the member’s receipt of 
home- and community-based services and is also used to generate claims for submission by 
providers. 
eligible 
A person who has been determined eligible for the TennCare program.  As it relates to 
CHOICES, a person is eligible to receive CHOICES benefits only if the person has been enrolled 
in CHOICES by TennCare. 
episode‐based payment 
The state’s proposed payment innovation model that achieves a specific patient objective 
including all associated upstream and downstream care and cost. 


--- Page 122 ---
 
105 
episodes of care 
One of Tennessee’s Health Care Innovation Initiative strategies that focuses on the healthcare 
delivered in association with acute healthcare events, such as a surgical procedure or an inpatient 
hospitalization.  Episodes encompass care delivered by multiple providers in relation to a 
specific healthcare event. 
episode window 
The entire duration of an episode. 
faith‐based recovery network/drugfree coalitions/lifeline peer groups 
Collaborations between the Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services and 
faith-based organizations and community organizations to increase outreach, reduce the stigma 
of addiction, and provide access to recovery programs. 
Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) 
An organized marketplace for health insurance plans operated by the U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services. Until the Tennessee Eligibility Determination System is implemented, 
TennCare relies on the FFM to determine eligibility for Medicaid benefits based on low income. 
fraud  
An intentional deception or misrepresentation made by a person who knows, or should have 
known, that the deception could result in an unauthorized benefit to themselves or another 
person, including any act that constitutes fraud under applicable federal or state law. 
home‐ and community‐based services (HCBS) 
Services that are provided in a home or community setting as an alternative to (or to delay the 
need for) long-term care services in a nursing facility or an intermediate care facility for 
individuals with intellectual disabilities. 
income 
Monies received, such as salaries, wages, pensions, certain rental income, interest income, 
dividends, and royalties, that produce a gain or benefit to the recipient. 
interChange 
TennCare’s Medicaid management information system (MMIS). All state Medicaid programs 
must have a MMIS to process claims and control business functions, such as reporting. 
long‐term services and supports  
One of Tennessee’s Health Care Innovation Initiative strategies that focuses on improving 
quality and shifting payment to outcomes-based measures for the Quality Improvement in Long-
Term Services and Supports program and for enhanced respiratory care. 
managed care contractor (MCC) 
A managed care organization that has signed a TennCare Contractor Risk Agreement with the 
state, operates a provider network, and provides covered health services to TennCare enrollees. 


--- Page 123 ---
 
106 
managed care organization (MCO) 
An appropriately licensed Health Maintenance Organization under contract with TennCare. 
marketing 
TennCare uses the term “marketing” to refer to all contacts made by managed care entities with 
enrollees, including letters, enrollee satisfaction surveys, newsletters, etc.  
Medicaid 
A program jointly funded by states and the federal government for medical assistance provided 
under Title XIX of the Social Security Act for certain persons with low income and/or special 
circumstances. 
Medicaid transportation broker 
An entity that contracts with the state Medicaid agency to manage non-emergency medical 
transportation services in a designated area. 
Medication‐Assisted Treatment (MAT) 
The use of medications, in combination with counseling and behavioral therapies, to provide a 
“whole patient” approach to the treatment of substance use disorders. 
Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI) 
An amount found on an individual’s tax return that is used to determine eligibility for Medicaid 
benefits based on low income (the MAGI-based eligibility category).  Most TennCare 
applications collected from the Federally Facilitated Marketplace are in this category. 
neonatal abstinence syndrome  
A postnatal drug withdrawal syndrome that occurs primarily among opioid-exposed infants 
shortly after birth, often manifested by central nervous system irritability, autonomic 
overactivity, and gastrointestinal tract dysfunction. 
Non‐chronic Opioid User Prior Authorization  
A document that physicians must fill out if a member needs an additional 10-day supply of 
opioids beyond the initial 5-day supply.  It requires physicians to document the member’s 
diagnosis, reason for prescribing opioids, and whether non-opioid treatments have been 
considered. 
non‐emergency medical transportation  
An important benefit for beneficiaries with situations that do not involve an immediate threat to 
the life or health of the individual who need to get to and from medical services but have no 
means of transportation.  
outcome payments 
Payments made by the managed care organization to the provider that are designed to reward the 
high-performing patient-centered medical homes for providing high-quality care while 
effectively managing overall spending.  


--- Page 124 ---
 
107 
patient‐centered medical homes (PCMH) 
A comprehensive care delivery model designed to improve the quality of primary care services 
for TennCare members, the capabilities of and practice standards of primary care providers, and 
the overall value of healthcare delivered to the TennCare population. 
payment reform 
TennCare’s initiative to improve healthcare quality, reduce costs, and improve how healthcare is 
paid for in the United States by rewarding high-quality care and outcomes and encouraging 
clinical effectiveness. See also Tennessee Health Care Innovation Initiative. 
Performance Improvement Projects (PIPs) 
A measurement strategy implemented by Magellan, the division’s pharmaceutical managed care 
organization, to perform data analysis of member opioid use based on member-filled 
prescriptions.  PIPs are designed to analyze data as it relates to specific study questions, such as 
if prescription and dosage limits have decreased opioid usage among members.   
personal care visits 
Intermittent visits of limited duration, under the CHOICES program, not to exceed four hours per 
visit and two visits per day, at intervals of no less than four hours between visits, to provide 
hands-on assistance to a member who, due to age and/or physical disability, needs help with 
activities of daily living. 
pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) 
An organization under contract with the Tennessee Department of Finance and Administration to 
pay for and/or coordinate pharmacy benefits for enrollees to the extent that such services are 
covered by the TennCare program. A PBM may have signed a TennCare Contractor Risk 
Agreement with the state or may be a subcontractor to a managed care organization.  
Pharmacy Lock‐In Program 
TennCare was granted authority, as of July 1, 2004, to implement and maintain a pharmacy lock-
in program, designed to address member abuse.  This program allows the division to assign one 
pharmacy where the member must fill all of his or her prescriptions if TennCare suspects the 
member is doctor shopping for opioids. 
plain language 
The reading level of notices, letters, explanations, or other written material sent by TennCare, its 
managed care contractors, or other contractors to TennCare enrollees and applicants.  Language 
used in such materials must not exceed a sixth-grade reading level, as measured by the Flesch 
Index, Fog Index, or Flesch-Kincaid Index. 
population‐based payment 
A report that shows a physicians’ controlled substance prescribing rate compared with other 
physicians statewide and in the same geographic areas.  


--- Page 125 ---
 
108 
pre‐admission evaluation 
A document providing an assessment of an individual’s functioning level that is used to 
determine medical eligibility for long-term services and supports.   
prescriber report card 
The state’s proposed payment innovation model that maintains patients’ health over time, 
coordinating care by specialist and avoiding episode events when appropriate.  
Prescription for Success 
A collaboration of state agencies that started in 2014 to coordinate anti-opioid strategies, share 
opioid related data, and expand opioid strategy collaborations with other states. 
primary care transformation 
One of Tennessee’s Health Care Innovation Initiative strategies that focuses on the role of the 
primary care provider in promoting the delivery of preventive services and managing chronic 
illnesses over time.  This initiative has developed an aligned model for patient-centered medical 
homes, Tennessee Health Link for TennCare members with the highest behavioral health needs, 
and a shared care coordination tool that allows providers to identify and track the closure of gaps 
in care linked to quality measures.  
principal accountable provider (quarterback) 
A facility, physician, or group of physicians who has the best chance to influence the overall 
quality and cost of the episode.  
redetermination 
The annual process that occurs for all TennCare Medicaid and standard enrollees during which 
they must provide documentation that they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for 
continued enrollment in the TennCare program. 
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) 
A means-tested welfare program administered by the Social Security Administration to provide 
cash for basic needs to low-income aged, blind, and disabled people.  In Tennessee, SSI 
recipients are eligible for TennCare. 
TennCare waiver 
A program approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in which the federal 
government has waived certain rules to allow TennCare to do some things that Medicaid cannot 
do, such as offer more benefits than Medicaid. 
Tennessee Eligibility Appeals Management System (TEAMS) 
TennCare’s standalone database used to manage and document eligibility appeals.  The 
Tennessee Eligibility Determination System (TEDS) will replace TEAMS.  


--- Page 126 ---
 
109 
Tennessee Health Care Innovation Initiative 
The strategy launched by Governor Haslam in February 2013 to change the way healthcare is 
paid for in Tennessee by moving from paying for volume to paying for value.  The three 
strategies to this initiative are primary care transformation, episodes of care, and long-term 
services and supports.  The initiative brings together healthcare providers and clinicians, 
employers, major insurance companies, patients, and family members to reform the healthcare 
payment and delivery system in Tennessee. See also payment reform.  
Tennessee Health Link 
A program designed to coordinate healthcare services for TennCare members by incentivizing 
increased care coordination for TennCare members with the highest behavioral health needs. 
This model involves a greater emphasis on care coordination by creating an interdisciplinary care 
team and helping improve communications between a member’s primary care and behavioral 
healthcare providers. 
Tennessee Pre‐Admission Eligibility System (TPAES) 
TennCare’s eligibility system for long-term services and supports program.  
Tennessee Prescription Safety Acts of 2012 and 2016 
Requires healthcare practitioners to check the Controlled Substance Monitoring Database 
(CSMD) before prescribing or dispensing opioids and to enter dispensed opioid information into 
the CSMD, including patient, prescribing physician, prescription, dispensing date, quantity, 
strength, and whether the prescription was new or a refill.  
Tennessee Together 
A plan Governor Bill Haslam introduced in January 2018 to end the opioid epidemic in 
Tennessee by focusing on three major components: prevention, treatment, and law enforcement. 
The Controlled System Monitoring Database Act of 2002 
Created the Controlled Substance Monitoring Database (CSMD) Committee to establish, 
administer, maintain, and direct the CSMD. 
third‐party administrator (TPA) 
Non-risk-bearing administrator of, or claims processor for, health plans.  In the TennCare 
program, the dental benefits manager (DBM) and the pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) are 
licensed as TPAs.  The TennCare program carries the risk of loss for claims rather than the DBM 
or PBM. 
Title XIX of the Social Security Act 
See Medicaid. 
trigger 
Within episodes of care, each episode has a “trigger” that initiates the start of an episode.  For 
example, in a total joint replacement episode, the trigger is joint replacement surgery.
