STATE: Kansas
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.kdhe.ks.gov/212/Preferred-Drug-List-Program
SEED_URL: https://www.kdhe.ks.gov/212/Preferred-Drug-List-Program
SOURCE_ROLE: capped-crawl seed follow-up
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Preferred Drug List Program | KDHE, KS Arrow Left Arrow Right Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow

Preferred Drug List Program | KDHE, KS 
Skip to Main Content 
Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.    
Website Sign In 
Search 
How Do I... 
KanCare Eligibility 
Data Reports 
Drug Program 
Our Work 
Medicaid 
Home 
Programs & Services 
Medicaid / Health Care Finance 
Our Work 
Pharmacy 
Clinical Programs 
Preferred Drug List Program 
Preferred Drug List Program 
Overview 
The Kansas Medical Assistance Program ( KMAP ) has created a preferred drug list ( PDL ) to promote clinically appropriate utilization of pharmaceuticals in a cost-effective manner without compromising the quality of care. The Kansas Medicaid PDL was authorized by K.S.A. 39-7,121a, allowing KMAP to develop a PDL based on safety, effectiveness and clinical outcomes. If these factors indicate no therapeutic advantage among the drugs being considered in the same drug class, then KMAP considers the net economic impact (lowest net cost to the State) of such drugs when recommending drugs for inclusion in the Medicaid PDL. The statute states that "drugs which do not have a significant, clinically meaningful therapeutic advantage in terms of safety, effectiveness or clinical outcomes may be excluded from the preferred drug formulary and be subject to prior authorization in accordance with state and federal laws". 
Helpful Resources 
PDL - Preferred Drug List (PDF) 
PDL Advisory Committee & Meeting Information 
Preferred Drug List Advisory Committee 
A Preferred Drug List Advisory Committee , composed of practicing physicians and pharmacists, ensures that extensive clinical review of drug products takes place. The Advisory Committee's review and recommendations are based on evidence-based clinical information, not cost. Evidence-based medicine means providing treatments that have been shown to be effective, beneficial, and have high value and not providing treatments that have been shown to be ineffective, harmful, or have poor value. 
All Preferred Drug List Advisory Committee meetings are open to the public and drug manufacturers may make presentations before committee action is taken. 
After KMAP decides which drugs in a specific drug class will be preferred and non-preferred, preliminary recommendations for prior authorization criteria are developed for the non-preferred drugs and taken to the Kansas Drug Utilization Review Board for review and approval in accordance with K.S.A. 39-7,118. 
Only drugs that are part of the listed therapeutic classes are affected by the Preferred Drug List (PDL). Therapeutic classes not listed are not part of the PDL and will continue to be covered as they always have for the Kansas Medical Assistance Pharmacy Program. Preferred drugs are exempt from the limit of 4 single-source prescription claims per beneficiary per month. Preferred drugs do not count toward the limit . 
KDHE Home 
Drug Utilization Review Program 
Interventions & Program Assessments 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Newsletters 
Preferred Drug List Program 
Preferred Drug List Advisory Committee 
Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee 
Apply for KanCare 
Regulations 
Open Records Request 
Electronic Health Records 
Drug Program 
Contact Us 
To protect and improve the 
health and environment 
of all Kansans. 
KanCare website 
Contact Us 
Division of Health Care Finance 
900 SW Jackson 
Suite 900 N 
Topeka, KS 66612 
Email 
Phone:  785-296-3982 
Division & Staff Directory 
Quick Links 
Working Healthy 
Kansas Health Information Technology 
Kansas Family Medical Assistance Manual (KFMAM) 
KanCare Program Fact Sheets 
KanCare Eligibility Policy 
KMAP General Special Requirements Manual 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Helpful Links 
KDHE Home 
Site Map 
Accessibility 
Privacy Policy 
Non-Discrimination Policy 
Open Records 
Social Media Policy 
Kansas.gov 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Loading 
Loading 
Do Not Show Again 
Close 
Arrow Left 
Arrow Right 
[] 
Slideshow Left Arrow 
Slideshow Right Arrow