STATE: Kansas
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.kdhe.ks.gov/234/Mental-Health-Medication-Advisory-Commit
SEED_URL: https://www.kdhe.ks.gov/212/Preferred-Drug-List-Program
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee | KDHE, KS Arrow Left Arrow Right Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow

Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee | KDHE, KS 
Skip to Main Content 
Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.    
Website Sign In 
Search 
How Do I... 
KanCare Eligibility 
Data Reports 
Drug Program 
Our Work 
Medicaid 
Home 
Programs & Services 
Medicaid / Health Care Finance 
Our Work 
Pharmacy 
Clinical Programs 
Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee 
Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee 
Meetings 
The Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee (MHMAC) meets quarterly, the second Tuesday in the months of February, May, August, and November, from 2:30 pm to 4:30 pm via Zoom and/or at Gainwell Technologies (formerly DXC Technology). The address is 6511 SE Forbes Avenue, Building 283J Topeka, KS 66619. The meeting is in the Capital Room. 
Conflict of Interest 
Members of the general public are required to complete a Conflict of Interest (COI) form (PDF) if they intend to provide public comments to the Committee. To assist the operator in coordinating public comment, completed forms are due one week prior to the meeting. Email the completed form to Anh Rongish . 
Psychotropic Medication Utilization Parameters for Children and Youth in Foster Care 
Visit the Kansas Department of Children and Families website to learn more about psychotropic medication utilization parameters for children and youth in foster care. 
Agenda 
Previous Minutes 
Archive 
Committee Members 
Agenda 
Current Agendas 
January 13, 2026 - Draft Criteria 
May 12, 2026 - Draft Criteria 
August 11, 2026 
November 10, 2026 
Previous Minutes 
Previous Minutes 
MHMAC Minutes - January 2026 (PDF) 
Archive 
MHMAC Archive 
Find MHMAC Board Meeting Minutes and Agendas from 2015 to 2024 in the archive. 
Committee Members 
Members 
Member Name Office Location Board Position 
William Warnes, MD (Chair) 
Shawnee, KS 
The chairperson is the Secretary of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment or the Secretary's designee. 
Chrissy R.D. Glenn, DO  
Kansas City, KS 
Physician licensed to practice medicine and surgery with board certification in psychiatry, nominated by the Kansas Psychiatric Society. 
Dr. Delaine Smith, DNP, APRN, ANP, PMHCNS, PMHNP-BC 
Topeka, KS 
Advanced Practice Registered Nurse engaged in a role of mental health and nominated by the Kansas State Nurses Association. 
Jennifer Hanson, DO 
Kansas City, KS 
Physician who is licensed to practice medicine and surgery with board certification in psychiatry, specializes in geriatric mental health and is nominated by the Kansas Psychiatric Society. 
Rebecca Klingler, MD 
Manhattan, KS 
One person licensed to practice medicine 
and surgery nominated by the Kansas Medical Society. 
Charles Millhuff, DO 
Topeka, KS 
Physician who is licensed to practice medicine and surgery with board certification in psychiatry, specializes in pediatric mental health and is nominated by the Association of Community Mental Health Centers of Kansas. 
Claire Herbst, PharmD, BCPS, BCPP 
Overland Park, KS 
Pharmacist nominated by the Kansas Pharmacists 
Association. 
Rex Lear, MD 
Wichita, KS 
Physician licensed to practice medicine and surgery with board certification in psychiatry and nominated by the Association of Community Mental Health Centers of Kansas. 
Jill Reynoldson, PharmD, BCPP 
Kansas City, KS 
Pharmacist nominated by the Kansas Pharmacists 
Association. 
KDHE Home 
Drug Utilization Review Program 
Interventions & Program Assessments 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
Newsletters 
Preferred Drug List Program 
Preferred Drug List Advisory Committee 
Mental Health Medication Advisory Committee 
Apply for KanCare 
Regulations 
Open Records Request 
Electronic Health Records 
Drug Program 
Contact Us 
To protect and improve the 
health and environment 
of all Kansans. 
KanCare website 
Contact Us 
Division of Health Care Finance 
900 SW Jackson 
Suite 900 N 
Topeka, KS 66612 
Email 
Phone:  785-296-3982 
Division & Staff Directory 
Quick Links 
Working Healthy 
Kansas Health Information Technology 
Kansas Family Medical Assistance Manual (KFMAM) 
KanCare Program Fact Sheets 
KanCare Eligibility Policy 
KMAP General Special Requirements Manual 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Helpful Links 
KDHE Home 
Site Map 
Accessibility 
Privacy Policy 
Non-Discrimination Policy 
Open Records 
Social Media Policy 
Kansas.gov 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Loading 
Loading 
Do Not Show Again 
Close 
Arrow Left 
Arrow Right 
[] 
Slideshow Left Arrow 
Slideshow Right Arrow