STATE: Kansas
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.coronavirus.kdheks.gov/1874/Non-Discrimination-Language-Access
SEED_URL: https://www.coronavirus.kdheks.gov/202/Drug-Utilization-Review-Board
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Non-Discrimination Policy
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Non-Discrimination & Language Access | KDHE, KS Arrow Left Arrow Right Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow

Non-Discrimination & Language Access | KDHE, KS 
Skip to Main Content 
Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.    
Website Sign In 
Search 
I'm Looking For... 
Jobs 
KDHE from A to Z 
Measles 
Programs & Services 
Feature Links 
Non-Discrimination & Language Access 
Non-Discrimination & Language Access 
Non-Discrimination Policy 
The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age, or sex in administration of its programs or activities, and, KDHE does not intimidate or retaliate against any individual or group because they have exercised their rights to participate in actions protected, or oppose action prohibited, by 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7, or for the purpose of interfering with such rights. Find compete details about the policy and what you should do if you believe you have been discriminated against in the Non-Discrimination Documents tab on this page.  
Language Access 
You have the right to access health care and government-funded services in a language you understand. Language identification tools are utilized by KDHE employees to determine the language of individuals whose preferred language is non-English. Learn more about the language identification tools used and find resources to support this work in the Language Access Resources tab on this page. 
Non-Discrimination Documents 
Language Access Resources 
Non-Discrimination Documents 
Non-Discrimination Documents & Contact Information 
If you have any questions about this notice or any of KDHE’s non-discrimination programs, policies or procedures, and compliance efforts concerning non-discrimination requirements implemented by 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7 (Non-discrimination in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Assistance from the Environmental Protection Agency), including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; the Age Discrimination Act of 1975; Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; and Section 13 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (hereinafter referred to collectively as the federal non-discrimination laws) contact KDHE's coordinator as outlined. 
Related Documents 
Meaningful Access Plan (PDF) 
Non-Discrimination Grievance Policy (PDF) 
Non-Discrimination Policy (PDF) 
Title VI Non-Discrimination Poster (PDF) 
Demographic Data in Kansas (PDF) 
Contact Us 
If you believe that you have been discriminated against with respect to a KDHE program or activity, contact KDHE's coordinator using one of the following contact methods: 
Complete and submit the Civil Rights Complaint Form online . 
Write or Email . Please include sufficient details or complete and return the Civil Rights Complaint Form (PDF ). 
Jade Ramsdell 
Kansas Department of Health and Environment 
1000 SW Jackson Street, Ste. 540, Topeka, KS  66612 
785-296-5156 
Language Access Resources 
Language Access Plan 
Take a look at KDHE's Language Access Plan (PDF) . 
Language Identification Tools 
Language identification tools are utilized by the employees of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) to determine the language of individuals whose preferred language is not English.  
I Speak Flyer & Cards 
KDHE has created an I Speak flyer (PDF) and cards to assist individuals accessing the department's services in asserting their right to an interpreter. These cards can be printed and utilized to request an interpreter at the department: 
Arabic (PDF) 
Burmese (PDF) 
French Creole (PDF) 
Haitian Creole (PDF) 
K'iche (PDF) 
Russian (PDF) 
Sign Language (PDF) 
Spanish (PDF) 
Tagalog (PDF) 
Ukrainian (PDF) 
Vietnamese (PDF) 
Questions 
Jade Ramsdell 
Phone: 785-296-5156 
Email the Non-Discrimination Team 
Contact Us 
If you believe that you have been discriminated against with respect to a KDHE program or activity, contact us using one of the following methods: 
Online Civil Rights Complaint Form  
Provide compete details using the Civil Rights Complaint Form (PDF ). Return the form via email or mail to the address listed on the form.  
KDHE Home 
Non-Discrimination & Language Access 
Open Records 
Privacy Notice 
Social Media Policy 
Public Health 
Environment 
KanCare 
Laboratories 
Public Notices 
News 
To protect and improve the 
health and environment 
of all Kansans. 
Contact Us 
Kansas Department of Health & Environment 
1000 SW Jackson Street 
Topeka, KS 66612 
Email 
Phone:  785-296-1500 
Division & Staff Directory 
Quick Links 
Kansas Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (KS BRFSS) 
Kansas Grant Management System 
Kansas Public Health Information (KANPHIX) 
KDHE Application Portal (KHAP) 
Kansas Environmental Information Management System (KEIMS) 
Kansas Environmental Application Portal (KEAP) 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Helpful Links 
KDHE Home 
Site Map 
Accessibility 
Privacy Policy 
Non-Discrimination Policy 
Open Records 
Social Media Policy 
Kansas.gov 
/QuickLinks.aspx 
Loading 
Loading 
Do Not Show Again 
Close 
Arrow Left 
Arrow Right 
[] 
Slideshow Left Arrow 
Slideshow Right Arrow