STATE: Texas
URL: https://www.public.law/privacy-policy
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://texas.public.law/statutes/tex._gov%27t_code_section_531.0736

Privacy Policy Public.Law About us API Remove ads Login Mediavine Programmatic Advertising (Ver 1.1) The Website works with Mediavine to manage third-party interest-based advertising appearing on the Website. Mediavine serves content and advertisements when you visit the Website, which may use first and third-party cookies. A cookie is a small text file which is sent to your computer or mobile device (referred to in this policy as a “device”) by the web server so that a website can remember some information about your browsing activity on the Website. First party cookies are created by the website that you are visiting. A third-party cookie is frequently used in behavioral advertising and analytics and is created by a domain other than the website you are visiting. Third-party cookies, tags, pixels, beacons and other similar technologies (collectively, “Tags”) may be placed on the Website to monitor interaction with advertising content and to target and optimize advertising. Each internet browser has functionality so that you can block both first and third-party cookies and clear your browser’s cache. The "help" feature of the menu bar on most browsers will tell you how to stop accepting new cookies, how to receive notification of new cookies, how to disable existing cookies and how to clear your browser’s cache. For more information about cookies and how to disable them, you can consult the information at All About Cookies . Without cookies you may not be able to take full advantage of the Website content and features. Please note that rejecting cookies does not mean that you will no longer see ads when you visit our Site. In the event you opt-out, you will still see non-personalized advertisements on the Website. The Website collects the following data using a cookie when serving personalized ads: IP Address Operating System type Operating System version Device Type Language of the website Web browser type Email (in hashed form) Mediavine Partners (companies listed below with whom Mediavine shares data) may also use this data to link to other end user information the partner has independently collected to deliver targeted advertisements. Mediavine Partners may also separately collect data about end users from other sources, such as advertising IDs or pixels, and link that data to data collected from Mediavine publishers in order to provide interest-based advertising across your online experience, including devices, browsers and apps. This data includes usage data, cookie information, device information, information about interactions between users and advertisements and websites, geolocation data, traffic data, and information about a visitor’s referral source to a particular website. Mediavine Partners may also create unique IDs to create audience segments, which are used to provide targeted advertising. If you would like more information about this practice and to know your choices to opt-in or opt-out of this data collection, please visit National Advertising Initiative opt out page . You may also visit Digital Advertising Alliance website and Network Advertising Initiative website to learn more information about interest-based advertising. You may download the AppChoices app at Digital Advertising Alliance’s AppChoices app to opt out in connection with mobile apps, or use the platform controls on your mobile device to opt out. For specific information about Mediavine Partners, the data each collects and their data collection and privacy policies, please visit Mediavine Partners . Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://www.public.law/privacy-policy Blank Outline Levels × The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close
