STATE: Illinois
URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/pdlbackground.html
ROLE: matrix: PDL background
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html;charset=utf-8
TITLE: PDL Background | HFS

PDL Background | HFS Skip to main content Agencies Services Elizabeth M. Whitehorn, Director Home My Healthcare Medical Clients Home Medical Programs Change Your Medicaid Address For Parents & Children For Pregnant Women & Infants For Seniors For People with Disabilities For Veterans For Other Adults For Immigrants Medicaid Recovery Medical Providers Medical Providers Home Address Update Messaging Toolkit Behavioral Health Care Coordination COVID-19 Updates Electronic Visit Verification HFS Application Agent Hospitals and Institutional Providers Long Term Care Medicaid Technical Assistance Center MPE/FPPE Providers Non-Institutional Providers Nursing Home Payment Update Pharmacy Save Medicaid Toolkit Child Support Services About Attorneys Employers Family 1st Hospitals Parents Partnerships HFS OIG Community Community Outreach and Engagement Community Spotlight Request HFS in Your Community Upcoming Events Calendar Info Center Info Center Home Agency Brochures & Forms Facts & Figures For Media Legal Center Procurement Center Report Center Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Healthcare Transformation Success Stories Illinois Medicaid Renewals Info Center Federal Resource Center About Us Our Mission, Vision, and Values About Us Careers Director Whitehorn Executive Staff Phone Directory Boards and Commissions Office of Inspector General More Elizabeth M. Whitehorn, Director HFS Medical Providers Pharmacy PDL Background Pharmacy Pharmacy Home Page Search for Prior Approval Status by Drug Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request Four Prescription Policy Info PDL Background The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) maintains a preferred drug list (PDL) in order to promote clinically appropriate utilization of pharmaceuticals in a cost-effective manner. The Illinois Medicaid PDL process ensures that HFS's PDL is developed based on safety, effectiveness, and clinical outcomes. If these factors indicate no therapeutic advantage among the drugs being considered in the same drug class, then HFS considers the net economic impact of such drugs when recommending drugs for inclusion in the PDL. HFS contracts with the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Pharmacy to perform a clinical review of products within the classes being reviewed. Upon receipt of the clinical recommendations, the department, in consultation with pharmacologists, pharmacists, and physicians, develops its PDL recommendations taking into account both clinical and cost factors. Those recommendations are then presented to the Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board , a board comprised of practicing clinicians representing various specialties who actively participate in the Medicaid Program. The D and T Advisory Board's review and recommendations are based on evidence-based clinical information, not cost. The PDL has proven a very effective tool in addressing the escalating cost of drugs. In Fiscal Year 2018, the State collected $82 million in supplemental rebates from manufacturers while ensuring access to clinically appropriate therapies. Significant additional savings is achieved by using the PDL to shift utilization to the most clinically appropriate, cost-effective alternatives. . Footer Back to top Stay Informed Public Notices Provider Notices Facts & Figures Helpful Links Boards & Commissions Media Center Careers Web Accessibility Missing & Exploited Children Amber Alerts Illinois Privacy Info Governor JB Pritzker © 2026 State of Illinois