STATE: New Mexico\nURL: https://www.hca.nm.gov/wp-content/uploads/CHESS-flyer-v.4.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.hca.nm.gov/preferred-drug-list/\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nThe NM Human Services Department provides 
App-based support for treatment and recovery 
of substance use disorder 
 
The New Mexico Human Services Department (HSD) partners with CHESS 
Health to engage New Mexico’s behavioral health providers in the Connections 
for Recovery Initiative. 
The Connections for Recovery Initiative includes evidence-based strategies that are crucial to address 
the financial and human toll of the substance use disorder (SUD) epidemic.  
 
CHESS Health is the leading provider of service-enabled technology 
supporting the entire addiction management and recovery lifecycle. 
HSD & CHESS Health will provide a set of evidence-based digital tools 
and peer support as an extension to treatment and therapy for SUD. This 
initiative seeks to engage providers to help: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Increase treatment adherence and support individuals on their path 
to recovery 
• 
Adopt strategies to address the needs of high risk or special 
populations such as pregnant women and families, justice-referred 
populations, or rural communities 
• 
Measure the impact of efforts and utilize data to adopt best 
practices across diverse populations 
Connections for Recovery  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nInvitation for Providers to Participate in the 
New Mexico Connections for Recovery Initiative 
  
Dear Providers and Agencies:   
I am pleased to extend this invitation to participate in the Connections for Recovery initiative. The initiative 
includes the Connections App, a component of the eRecovery solution from CHESS Health. 
The Connections App is an evidence-based smartphone app that helps individuals adhere to their 
treatment plan and stay in recovery. New Mexican treatment providers and agencies play an important role in 
this initiative by introducing the app to their patients. Providers are encouraged to offer the Connections App 
to patients so that they can be part of a safe, supportive online community which reduces isolation, build social 
relatedness, and reinforces coping skills. CHESS Health Peers provide 24/7 support to individuals in the 
Connections App. Providers may use the CHESS Dashboard which allows the provider functionality to track 
patient recovery progress, encourage and follow the patient’s completion of digital Cognitive Behavioral Ther-
apy (CBT) lessons, stay engaged with their patients through group discussions and/or 1:1 messaging, 
and more. CHESS and local peers will also be engaging with patients through the app leading/moderating 
discussion groups. 
Best of all, the cost of eRecovery is covered by New Mexico Human Services Department, Behavioral Health 
Services Division, and there’s absolutely no cost to providers or patients. 
If you have specific questions or would like a personal discussion regarding this initiative, feel free to contact 
Renee Edwards, HSD at Renee.Edwards@state.nm.us or CHESS Health at nm-support@chess.health.  
Sincerely, 
Neal A. Bowen, PhD 
Director, Behavioral Health Services Division, NM Human Services Department 
  
Visit CHESS Health eRecovery                      
@ www.chess.health/erecovery/ 
• See the support the Connections App offers 
• Get more information about the CHESS Peer                                                                                                                                             
Engagement Team 
• Learn more about the Chess App Dashboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Provider Education and Participation 
For more information  about the Connections for 
Recovery Initiative or to participate, contact 
CHESS Health at nm-support@chess.health or 
Mark Garnand  at Mark.Garnand@state.nm.us.  
  
The implementation process is fast and easy. 
Implementation steps are: 
• Provider / CHESS discuss current and future state 
workflows 
• Identify provider staff 
• Schedule product training (30-minute session) 
• Once trained, provider staff are ready to enroll & 
onboard patients to Connections App    
• Go-live complete!\n