STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2024/july/DUR%20Agenda%2007102024.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – July 10, 2024 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Megan Hanner –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. John Muchmore –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Vineetha Thomas –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Beth Walton –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Cindy West –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_94lCoSe9Ty2msgsLMqg2Ww 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 958 2294 2095 
 
Passcode: 65079339 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. June 12, 2024 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. June 12, 2024 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Travers Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/Chronic Medication 
Adherence (CMA) Program Update – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for June 2024 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for Jume 2024 
C. CMA Program Update 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) – See 
Appendix C 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Risvan® (Risperidone Extended-
Release Injection) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Atypical 
Antipsychotic Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Risvan® (Risperidone Extended-Release Injection) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Baclofen 15mg Tablet, Chlorzoxazone 
250mg Tablet, Clindacin® ETZ Kit (Clindamycin 1% Swabs and Cleanser), 
Combogesic® IV [Acetaminophen/Ibuprofen Intravenous (IV)], Elyxyb™ 
(Celecoxib Oral Solution), Ingrezza® Sprinkle (Valbenazine), Lodoco® 
(Colchicine), Millipred™ (Prednisolone 5mg Tablet), Motpoly XR™ 
[Lacosamide Extended-Release (ER) Capsule], Neo-Synalar® 
(Neomycin/Fluocinolone Cream), Ozobax® DS [Baclofen Double Strength 
(DS) 10mg/5mL Oral Solution], PoKonza™ (Potassium Chloride 10mEq 
Packet for Oral Solution), Suflave™ [Polyethylene Glycol (PEG)-
3350/Sodium Sulfate/Potassium Chloride/Magnesium Sulfate/Sodium 
Chloride], and Valsartan Oral Solution and Update the Approval Criteria for 
the Various Special Formulations – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Qalsody™ (Tofersen) and Rilutek® 
(Riluzole) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Amyotrophic Lateral 
Sclerosis (ALS) Medications – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Liqrev® (Sildenafil Oral Suspension), 
Opsynvi® (Macitentan/Tadalafil), and Winrevair™ (Sotatercept-csrk) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension 
(PAH) Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Akeega™ (Niraparib/Abiraterone 
Acetate) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Genitourinary and 
Gynecologic Cancer Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Akeega™ (Niraparib/Abiraterone Acetate) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Annual Review of Testosterone Products – See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Testosterone Products 
C. Prior Authorization of Testosterone Products 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Testosterone Products  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
12. Annual Review of Colorectal Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Avzivi® (Bevacizumab-tnjn) and Fruzaqla® (Fruquintinib) – 
See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Colorectal Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Colorectal Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Colorectal Cancer Medications  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
13. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Wegovy® (Semaglutide) – See Appendix K 
A. Introduction 
B. Market News and Updates 
C. Wegovy® (Semaglutide) Product Summary 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Filsuvez® (Birch Triterpenes Topical Gel) – See 
Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of EB Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of EB Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Filsuvez® (Birch Triterpenes Topical Gel) Product Summary 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nF. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of EB Medications  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Alzheimer’s Disease Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Kisunla™ (Donanemab-azbt) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Alzheimer's Disease Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Alzheimer's Disease Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Kisunla™ (Donanemab-azbt) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Alzheimer's Disease Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
16. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin Catheter 
Lock System) – See Appendix N 
A. Introduction 
B. Market News and Updates 
C. Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin Catheter Lock System) Product Summary 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
17. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix O 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
18. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
No live DUR Board meeting scheduled for August 2024. August 2024 will 
be a packet-only meeting. 
A. Corticosteroid Special Formulations 
B. Opioid Analgesics and Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) Medications 
C. Topical Corticosteroids 
D. Various Systemic Antibiotics 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
19. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n