STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/january/01082025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Packet Meeting – January 8, 2025 
NOTE: 
No live January meeting. January 2025 is a packet-only meeting. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. December 11, 2024 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. December 11, 2024 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Prenatal Vitamin (PNV) Utilization Update – See Appendix B 
A. Introduction 
B. Utilization of PNV 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Annual Review of Antihyperlipidemics and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Tryngolza™ (Olezarsen) – See Appendix C 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antihyperlipidemics 
C. Prior Authorization of Antihyperlipidemics 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Tryngolza™ (Olezarsen) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Antihyperlipidemics  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Annual Review of Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) Products and 30-
Day Notice to Prior Authorize Acthar® SelfJect™ (Corticotropin Auto-
Injector) and Purified Cortrophin® Gel (Repository Corticotropin Injection) – 
See Appendix D 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ACTH Products 
C. Prior Authorization of ACTH Products 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of ACTH Products 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Annual Review of Xgeva® (Denosumab) and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Wyost® (Denosumab-bbdz) – See Appendix E 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Xgeva® (Denosumab) 
C. Prior Authorization of Xgeva® (Denosumab) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Xgeva® (Denosumab) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Annual Review of Systemic Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs 
(NSAIDs) and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Diflunisal 500mg Tablet, 
Dolobid™ (Diflunisal) 250mg and 375mg Tablet, and Indomethacin 50mg 
Suppository – See Appendix F 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of NSAIDs 
C. Prior Authorization of NSAIDs 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Dolobid™ (Diflunisal) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparison: Indomethacin Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of NSAIDs  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Annual Review of Ophthalmic Antibiotic Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Ophthalmic Antibiotic Medications 
C.  Prior Authorization of Ophthalmic Antibiotic Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Ophthalmic Antibiotic Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Daugherty, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Annual Review of Gastrointestinal (GI) Cancer Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Tevimbra® (Tislelizumab-jsgr), Vyloy® 
(Zolbetuximab-clzb), and Ziihera® (Zanidatamab) – See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of GI Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of GI Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of GI Cancer Medications 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Daugherty, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Fyarro® (Sirolimus Protein-Bound Particles for Injectable 
Suspension), Niktimvo™ (Axatilimab-csfr), Ojemda™ (Tovorafenib), 
Tecelra® (Afamitresgene Autoleucel), and Voranigo® (Vorasidenib) –  
See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Daugherty, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Annual Review of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications –    
See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Annual Review of Antihypertensive Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Labetalol Hydrochloride 400mg Tablet, Nexiclon™ XR [Clonidine 
Extended-Release (ER)], and Tryvio™ (Aprocitentan) – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antihypertensive Medications  
C. Prior Authorization of Antihypertensive Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Tryvio™ (Aprocitentan) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparisons 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Antihypertensive Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix L 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Anti-Migraine Medications 
B. Cholestatic Liver Disease Medications 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nC. Heart Failure Medications 
D. Thrombocytopenia Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n