STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/december/12102025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – December 10, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Christen Ground –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. November 12, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. November 12, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for November 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for November 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Snyder, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Academic Detailing Program Update – See Appendix C 
A. Background 
B. Current Topics: Co-Prescribing Opioid Medications with Benzodiazepines 
(BZD) and Naloxone 
C. Prescriber Mailings and Results: Co-Prescribing Opioid Medications with BZD 
and Naloxone                   
D. Summary 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – SoonerCare Maintenance Drug List – See Appendix D 
1. Introduction 
2. SoonerCare Maintenance Drug List 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n3. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Brinsupri™ (Brensocatib) – See 
Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Brinsupri™ (Brensocatib) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Bildyos® (Denosumab-nxxp), 
Bilprevda® (Denosumab-nxxp), Bomyntra® (Denosumab-bnht), 
Conexxence® (Denosumab-bnht), Osenvelt® (Denosumab-bmwo), and 
Stoboclo® (Denosumab-bmwo) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Bone Density Regulators – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Forzinity™ (Elamipretide) – See 
Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Forzinity™ (Elamipretide) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Rhapsido® (Remibrutinib) – See 
Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Rhapsido® (Remibrutinib) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss,  Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Harliku™ (Nitisinone), Orfadin® 
(Nitisinone), Nityr® (Nitisinone), and Sephience™ (Sepiapterin) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Amino Acid Disorder Medications – See 
Appendix I 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Product Summaries 
C. Cost Comparisons 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Anzupgo® (Delgocitinib 2% Cream) 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Atopic Dermatitis (AD) 
Medications – See  Appendix J 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Anzupgo® (Delgocitinib 2% Cream) Product Summary 
C. Cost Comparisons 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Omlyclo® (Omalizumab-igec) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Asthma and Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Maintenance Medications – See Appendix K 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Boruzu® (Bortezomib) and 
Lynozyfic™ (Linvoseltamab-gcpt) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Multiple Myeloma Medications – See Appendix L 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Lynozyfic™ (Linvoseltamab-gcpt) Product Summary 
C. Cost Comparison: Bortezomib Products 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Action Item – Annual Review of Skysona® (Elivaldogene Autotemcel) – See 
Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Skysona® (Elivaldogene Autotemcel) 
C. Prior Authorization of Skysona® (Elivaldogene Autotemcel) 
D. Market New and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Skin Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Keytruda Qlex™ (Pembrolizumab/Berahyaluronidase alfa-pmph) 
and Opdivo Qvantig™ (Nivolumab/Hyaluronidase-nvhy) – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Skin Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Skin Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Skin Cancer Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. Annual Review of Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous 
Immunomodulatory Agents and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Imaavy™ 
(Nipocalimab-aahu) – See Appendix O 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous Immunomodulatory 
Agents 
C. Prior Authorization of Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous 
Immunomodulatory Agents  
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Imaavy™ (Nipocalimab-aahu) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparisons 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
H. Utilization Details of Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous 
Immunomodulatory Agents 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Alyglo™ [Immune Globulin (IG) 
Intravenous (IV), Human-stwk], Asceniv™ (IGIV, Human-slra), Cuvitru® (IG 
Subcutaneous (SC), Human), Gammagard Liquid® (IG Infusion, Human), 
Gammagard S/D® (IGIV, Human), Gammaplex® (IGIV, Human), Hizentra® 
(IGSC, Human), Panzyga® (IGIV, Human-ifas), Privigen® (IGIV, Human), and 
Xembify® (IGSC, Human-klhw) – See Appendix P 
A. Introduction 
B. Cost Comparisons  
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Thrombocytopenia Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Doptelet® Sprinkle (Avatrombopag) and Wayrilz™ 
(Rilzabrutinib) – See Appendix Q 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Thrombocytopenia Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Thrombocytopenia Medications  
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Walyrilz™ (Rilzabrutinib) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
G. Utilization Details of Thrombocytopenia Medications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Annual Review of Muscle Relaxant Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Atmeksi® (Methocarbamol Oral Suspension), Metaxalone 640mg 
Tablet, and Tanlor® (Methocarbamol 1,000mg Tablet) – See Appendix R 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Muscle Relaxant Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Muscle Relaxant Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Carisoprodol Products Cost Comparison 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Muscle Relaxant Medications 
 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
21. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Andembry® (Garadacimab-gxii), 
Dawnzera™ (Donidalorsen), and Ekterly® (Sebetralstat) and Create a 
Product Based Prior Authorization (PBPA) Category for the Hereditary 
Angioedema (HAE) Medications – See Appendix S 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Market News and Updates 
C. Product Summaries 
D. Estimation of Savings 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. Annual Review of Antidepressants and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize 
Escitalopram 15mg Capsule and Raldesy™ (Trazodone Oral Solution) – See 
Appendix T 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antidepressants 
C. Prior Authorization of Antidepressants 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparisons 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Antidepressants 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
23. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix U 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\nNon-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
24. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
No live DUR Board Meeting is scheduled for January 2026. January 2026 
will be a packet-only meeting. 
A. Adiposity-Based Chronic Disease (ABCD) Medications  
B. Antihyperlipidemics  
C. Antihypertensive Medications  
D. Gastrointestinal (GI) Cancer Medications 
E. Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications  
F. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)  
G. Ophthalmic Antibiotic Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
25. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n