STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/november/11122025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – November 12, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
Dr. Christen Ground –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. October 8, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. October 8, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Action Item – Approval of 2026 DUR Board Meeting Dates – See     
Appendix B 
A. 2026 DUR Board Meeting Dates 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix C 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for October 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for October 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Hepatitis C Program Update – See Appendix D 
A. Background 
B. Results of Claims Analysis 
C. Conclusions 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Eliquis® (Apixaban) Tablet for Oral 
Suspension and Eliquis® Sprinkle (Apixaban) Capsule for Oral Suspension 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Anticoagulants and Platelet 
Aggregation Inhibitors – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Avtozma® (Tocilizumab-anoh), 
Imuldosa® (Ustekinumab-srlf), Otezla XR™ [Apremilast Extended-Release 
(ER)], Starjemza™ (Ustekinumab-hmny), Steqeyma® (Ustekinumab-stba), 
and Yesintek™ (Ustekinumab-kfce) and Update the Approval Criteria for 
the Targeted Immunomodulator Agents – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Cost Comparison: Currently Available Subcutaneous (Sub-Q) Ustekinumab 
Products 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Multiple Myeloma Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Boruzu® (Bortezomib) and Lynozyfic™ (Linvoseltamab-
gcpt) – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Lynozyfic™ (Linvoseltamab-gcpt) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparison: Bortezomib Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
H. Utilization Details of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Annual Review of Bone Density Regulators and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Bildyos® (Denosumab-nxxp), Bilprevda® (Denosumab-nxxp), 
Bomyntra® (Denosumab-bnht), Conexxence® (Denosumab-bnht), Osenvelt® 
(Denosumab-bmwo), and Stoboclo® (Denosumab-bmwo) – See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Bone Density Regulators 
C. Prior Authorization of Bone Density Regulators 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Bone Density Regulators 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Forzinity™ (Elamipretide) – See   
Appendix I 
A. Introduction 
B. Forzinity™ (Elamipretide) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Annual Review of Amino Acid Disorder Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Harliku™ (Nitisinone), Orfadin® (Nitisone), Nityr® 
(Nitisinone), and Sephience™ (Sepiapterin) – See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Amino Acid Disorder Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Amino Acid Disorder Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Amino Acid Disorder Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Brinsupri™ (Brensocatib) – See   
Appendix K 
A. Introduction 
B. Brinsupri™ (Brensocatib) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) Medications and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Anzupgo® (Delgocitinib 2% Cream) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of AD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of AD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Anzupgo® (Delgocitinib 2% Cream) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparisons  
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of AD Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
(COPD) Maintenance Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize 
Omlyclo® (Omalizumab-igec) – See  Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nC. Prior Authorization of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. 60-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Andembry® (Garadacimab-gxii), 
Dawnzera™ (Donidalorsen), and Ekterly® (Sebetralstat) and Create a 
Product Based Prior Authorization (PBPA) Category for the Hereditary 
Angioedema (HAE) Medications – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Market News and Updates 
C. Product Summaries 
D. Estimation of Savings 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran,  Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Rhapsido® (Remibrutinib) – See   
Appendix O 
A. Introduction 
B. Rhapsido® (Remibrutinib) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix P 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Antidepressants 
B. Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous Immunomodulatory Agents 
C. Immune Globulin Intravenous and Subcutaneous Products 
D. Lysosomal Storage Disease Medications 
E. Skin Cancer Medications 
F. Thrombocytopenia Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Action Item – Nomination and Approval of DUR Board Officers 
A. Nominations and Approval of DUR Board Chair and Vice Chair 
 
21. Action Item – Adjournment 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nNOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n