STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2023/march/DUR%20Agenda%2003082023.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – March 8, 2023 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Jennifer de los Angeles –   
participating in person 
 
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Megan Hanner –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lynn Mitchell –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. John Muchmore –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_73z8ERX7Sv-KeQGP3GVqPg 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 952 7560 1667 
 
Passcode: 69395211 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. February 8, 2023 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. February 8, 2023 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Kottoor, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/Spring 2023 Pipeline 
Update – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Helpdesk Activity for February 2023 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for February 2023 
C. Spring 2023 Pipeline Update 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Kottoor, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Brimonidine 0.33% Topical Gel 
(Generic Mirvaso®), Vtama® (Tapinarof), and Zoryve™ (Roflumilast) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for Topical Acne, Psoriasis, and Rosacea 
Products – See     Appendix C 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Tadliq® (Tadalafil Oral Suspension) 
and Tyvaso DPI® (Treprostinil Powder for Inhalation) and Update the 
Approval Criteria for the Pulmonary Hypertension Medications – See 
Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Zonisade™ (Zonisamide Oral 
Suspension) and Ztalmy® (Ganaxolone) and Update the Approval Criteria 
for the Anticonvulsants – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Ztalmy® (Ganaxolone) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Rezlidhia™ (Olutasidenib) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Leukemia Medications –  See 
Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Rezlidhia™ (Olutasidenib) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Lymphoma Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Jaypirca™ (Pirtobrutinib) and Lunsumio™ (Mosunetuzumab-
axgb) – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Lymphoma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Lymphoma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Jaypirca™ (Pirtobutinib) Product Summary 
F. Lunsumio™ (Mosunetuzumab-axgb) Product Summary 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Lymphoma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Annual Review of Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factors (G-CSFs) and 
30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Rolvedon™ (Eflapegrastim-xnst) and 
Stimufend® (Pegfilgrastim-fpgk) – See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of G-CSFs  
C. Prior Authorization of G-CSFs 
D. Market News and Updates 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nE. Cost Comparison  
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of G-CSFs  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. Annual Review of Growth Hormone Products and Voxzogo® (Vosoritide) – 
See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Growth Hormone Products and Voxzogo® (Vosoritide) 
C. Prior Authorization of Growth Hormone Products and Voxzogo® (Vosoritide) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Growth Hormone Products and Voxzogo® (Vosoritide) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
12. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Lamzede® (Velmanase Alfa-tycv) – See 
Appendix J 
A. Introduction 
B. Lamzede® (Velmanase Alfa-tycv) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
13. Annual Review of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Briumvi™ (Ublituximab-xiiy), Tascenso ODT® [Fingolimod 
Orally Disintegrating Tablet (ODT)] – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of MS Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of MS Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Briumvi™ (Ublituximab-xiiy) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparison: Fingolimod Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of MS Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Kottoor, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Short-Acting Beta2 Agonists (SABAs) and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Airsupra™ (Albuterol/Budesonide) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of SABAs  
C. Prior Authorization of SABAs 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Airsupra™ (Albuterol/Budesonide) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of SABAs 
 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\n 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Reynolds, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Urea Cycle Disorder (UCD) Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Olpruva™ (Sodium Phenylbutyrate Pellets for 
Oral Suspension) and Pheburane® (Sodium Phenylbutyrate Oral Pellets) – 
See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of UCD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of UCD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison: UCD Medications 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of UCD Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
16. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix N 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
17. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Anti-Diabetic Medications 
B. Anti-Emetic Medications 
C. Lung Cancer Medications 
D. Systemic Antifungal Medications  
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
18. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n