STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/june/06112025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – June 11, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_94lCoSe9Ty2msgsLMqg2Ww 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 958 2294 2095 
 
Passcode: 65079339 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. May 14, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. May 14, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for May 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for May 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 (DPP-4) Inhibitor Utilization Update – See  
Appendix C 
A. Introduction 
B. DPP-4 Inhibitor Utilization in the SoonerCare Population 
C. Conclusions 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Daxxify® (DaxibotulinumtoxinA-lanm) 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Botulinum Toxins – See   
Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Daxxify® (DaxibotulinumtoxinA-lanm) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Brynovin™ (Sitagliptin Oral Solution), 
Glimepiride 3mg Tablet, Merilog™ (Insulin Aspart-szjj), Metformin 750mg 
Tablet, and Zituvimet™ XR [Sitagliptin/Metformin Extended-Release (ER)] 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Anti-Diabetic Medications – See 
Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Cost Comparisons  
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Onyda™ XR [Clonidine Extended-
Release (ER) Oral Suspension) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Medications – See 
Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Sofdra™ (Sofpironium) – See 
Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Enzeevu™ (Aflibercept-abzv), 
Opuviz™ (Aflibercept-yszy), and Yesafili™ (Aflibercept-jbvf) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) 
Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Crexont® [Carbidopa/Levodopa 
Extended-Release (ER) Capsule], Onapgo™ (Apomorphine Injection for 
Continuous Infusion), and Vyalev™ (Foscarbidopa/Foslevodopa Injection 
for Continuous Infusion) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Parkinson’s Disease Medications – See Appendix I 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Cost Comparison: Oral Carbidopa/Levodopa Products 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Vanrafia® (Atrasentan) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Primary Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy 
(IgAN) Medications – See Appendix J 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Vanrafia® (Atrasentan) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Axtle™ (Pemetrexed), Bizengri® 
(Zenocutuzumab-zbco), Imdelltra™ (Tarlatamab-dlle), Lazcluze™ 
(Lazertinib), and Tecentriq Hybreza™ (Atezolizumab/Hyaluronidase-tqjs) 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Lung Cancer Medications – See 
Appendix K 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Action Item – Annual Review of Antiviral Medications – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antiviral Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Antiviral Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison: Prevymis® (Letermovir) Products 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Antiviral Medications  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Action Item – Annual Review of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
C. Prior Authorization of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
D. Market News and Updates 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nE. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Action Item – Annual Review of Strensiq® (Asfotase Alfa) – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Strensiq® (Asfotase Alfa) 
C. Prior Authorization of Strensiq® (Asfotase Alfa) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Strensiq® (Asfotase Alfa) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. Annual Review of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications and 
30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Avmapki™ Fakzynja™ Co-Pack 
(Avutometinib and Defactinib) – See Appendix O 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Avmapki™ Fakzynja™ Co-Pack (Avutometinib and Defactinib) Product 
Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of the SoonerCare Pharmacy Benefit – See Appendix P 
A. Summary 
B. Medicaid Drug Rebate Program 
C. Alternative Payment Models 
D. Drug Approval Trends 
E. Traditional Versus Specialty Pharmacy Products 
F. Top 10 Traditional Therapeutic Categories by Reimbursement 
G. Top 10 Specialty Therapeutic Categories by Reimbursement 
H. Top 10 Medications by Reimbursement 
I. Cost Per Claim 
J. Market Projections 
K. Conclusion   
L. Fiscal Year Comparison 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Cobenfy™ (Xanomeline/Trospium), Erzofri® [Paliperidone 
Palmitate Extended-Release (ER) Injection], and Opipza™ (Aripiprazole 
Oral Film) – See Appendix Q 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nA. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
D. Oklahoma Resources 
E. Market News and Updates 
F. Cobenfy™ (Xanomeline/Trospium) Product Summary 
G. Cost Comparisons 
H. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
I. Utilization Details of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications   
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Annual Review of Various Special Formulations and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Carbamazepine 200mg Chewable Tablet, Femlyv™ 
[Norethindrone Acetate/Ethinyl Estradiol Orally Disintegrating Tablet 
(ODT)]; Focinvez™ (Fosaprepitant Injection), Imkeldi (Imatinib Oral 
Solution), IVRA (Melphalan 90mg/mL Injection), Myhibbin™ 
(Mycophenolate Mofetil Oral Suspension), Ondansetron 16mg ODT, 
Tezruly™ (Terazosin Oral Solution), Topiramate 50mg Sprinkle Capsule, 
Veltassa® (Patiromer) 1g Powder Packet, and Vigafyde™ (Vigabatrin Oral 
Solution) – See Appendix R 
A. Introduction 
B. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
C. Utilization of Various Special Formulations 
D. Prior Authorization of Various Special Formulations 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Various Special Formulations   
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
21. Annual Review of Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) – See Appendix S 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) 
C. Prior Authorization of Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix T 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
23. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Alzheimer’s Disease Medications 
B. Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Medications 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\nC. Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) Medications 
D. Testosterone Products 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
24. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n