STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/october/10082025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – October 8, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. September 10, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. September 10, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for September 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for September 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Fall Pipeline Update – See Appendix C 
A. Introduction 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Pipeline Table 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Attruby™ (Acoramidis) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Amyloidosis Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Attruby™ (Acoramidis) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Alyftrek® (Vanzacaftor/Tezacaftor/ 
Deutivicaftor) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Cystic Fibrosis (CF) 
Medications – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Alyftrek® (Vanzacaftor/Tezacaftor/Deutivicaftor) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Encelto™ (Revakinagene Taroretcel-
lwey) – See Appendix F 
A. Encelto™ (Revakinagene Taroretcel-lwey) Product Summary 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Fosrenol® (Lanthanum Carbonate) 
750mg and 1,000mg Oral Powder Packet and Update the Approval Criteria 
for the Hyperphosphatemia Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Cost Comparison: Lanthanum Carbonate Products 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Photrexa®/Photrexa® Viscous 
(Riboflavin 5'-Phosphate) – See Appendix H 
A. Photrexa®/Photrexa® Viscous (Riboflavin 5’-phosphate) Product Summary 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Datroway® (Datopotamab 
Deruxtecan-dlnk) and Itovebi™ (Inavolisib) and Update the Approval 
Criteria for the Breast Cancer Medications – See Appendix I 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Product Summaries 
C. Cost Comparison: Trastuzumab Products 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Annual Review of Myeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN) Medications – See 
Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of MPN Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of MPN Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of MPN Medications 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Action Item – Annual Review of Clostridioides difficile (C. difficile) 
Medications – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of C. difficile Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of C. difficile Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of C. difficile Medications  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Action Item – Annual Review of Allergen Immunotherapies – See  
Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Allergen Immunotherapies 
C. Prior Authorization of Allergen Immunotherapies 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Allergen Immunotherapies 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Action Item – Annual Review of Cushing’s Syndrome Medications – See 
Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Cushing’s Syndrome Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Cushing’s Syndrome Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
F. Utilization Details of Cushing’s Syndrome Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Action Item – Annual Review of Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatory Products – 
See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatory Products 
C. Prior Authorization of Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatory Products 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatory Products 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. Action Item – Annual Review of Hyperoxaluria Medications – Appendix O 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Hyperoxaluria Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Hyperoxaluria Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nD. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Action Item – Annual Review of Anemia Medications – See Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Anemia Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Anemia Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Anemia Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Targeted Immunomodulator Agents and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Avtozma® (Tocilizumab-anoh), Imuldosa® (Ustekinumab-
srlf), Otezla XR™ [Apremilast Extended-Release (ER)], Starjemza™ 
(Ustekinumab-hmny), Steqeyma® (Ustekinumab-stba), and Yesintek™ 
(Ustekinumab-kfce) – See Appendix Q 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Targeted Immunomodulator Agents 
C. Prior Authorization of Targeted Immunomodulator Agents 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
G. Utilization Details of Targeted Immunomodulator Agents 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer,  Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Annual Review of Hereditary Angioedema (HAE) Medications and 60-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Andembry® (Garadacimab-gxii), Dawnzera™ 
(Donidalorsen), and Ekterly® (Sebetralstat) and Create a Product Based 
Prior Authorization (PBPA) Category for the HAE Medications – See 
Appendix R 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of HAE Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of HAE Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: HAE Prophylaxis Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of HAE Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
21. Annual Review of Anticoagulants and Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors and 
30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Eliquis® (Apixaban) Tablet for Oral 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nSuspension and Eliquis® Sprinkle (Apixaban) Capsule for Oral Suspension – 
See Appendix S 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Anticoagulants and Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors 
C. Prior Authorization of Anticoagulants and Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Anticoagulants and Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix T 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
23. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Amino Acid Disorder Medications 
B. Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Maintenance 
Medications 
C. Atopic Dermatitis Medications 
D. Brinsupri™ (Brensocatib) 
E. Butalbital Medications 
F. Multiple Myeloma Medications 
G. Osteoporosis Medications and Denosumab Products 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
24. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n