STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2024/august/08142024%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Packet Meeting – August 14, 2024 
NOTE: 
No live August meeting. August 2024 is a packet-only meeting. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. July 10, 2024 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. July 10, 2024 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) Safety Alerts – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for July 2024 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for July 2024 
C. FDA Safety Alerts 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Annual Review of Wilson’s Disease Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Penicillamine 250mg Tablet and Trientine Hydrochloride 500mg 
Capsule – See Appendix C 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Wilson’s Disease Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Wilson’s Disease Medications  
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparisons 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Annual Review of Corticosteroid Special Formulations and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Eohilia™ (Budesonide Oral Suspension) –  
See Appendix D 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Corticosteroid Special Formulations 
C. Prior Authorization of Corticosteroid Special Formulations 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Eohilia™ (Budesonide Oral Suspension) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparison 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Corticosteroid Special Formulations 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Annual Review of Iron Products and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize 
Accrufer® (Ferric Maltol) – See Appendix E 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Iron Products 
C. Prior Authorization of Iron Products 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Accrufer® (Ferric Maltol) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparison: Intravenous (IV) Iron Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Iron Products  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Annual Review of Opioid Analgesics and Medication-Assisted Treatment 
(MAT) Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Tramadol 25mg 
Tablet – See Appendix F 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Opioid Analgesics and MAT Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Opioid Analgesics and MAT Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison: Tramadol 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Opioid Analgesics and MAT Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Annual Review of Topical Corticosteroids – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Topical Corticosteroids 
C. Prior Authorization of Topical Corticosteroids 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Topical Corticosteroids 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Annual Review of Various Systemic Antibiotics and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Doryx® MPC [Doxycycline Delayed-Release (DR) Tablet], 
Exblifep® (Cefepime/Enmetazobactam), Meropenem 2g Vial, Pivya™ 
(Pivmecillinam), Nitrofurantoin 50mg/mL Suspension, Tetracycline 250mg 
and 500mg Tablet, Zevtera® (Ceftobiprole Medocaril Sodium) – See 
Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Various Systemic Antibiotics 
C. Prior Authorization of Various Systemic Antibiotics 
D. Market News and Updates 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nE. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparisons 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Various Systemic Antibiotics 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix I 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Allergen Immunotherapies 
B. Amyloidosis Medications 
C. Breast Cancer Medications 
D. Cystic Fibrosis Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
11. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n