STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2024/june/DUR%20Agenda%2006122024.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – June 12, 2024 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Megan Hanner –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. John Muchmore –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Vineetha Thomas –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Beth Walton –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Cindy West –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_R_AmCBepQpGQggKXT40uxg 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 919 6475 4191 
 
Passcode: 95646190 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. April 10, 2024 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. April 10, 2024 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Morgan, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/Concomitant Use of 
Opioids and Gabapentinoids Mailing Update – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for April 2024 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for April 2024 
C. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for May 2024 
D. Medication Coverage Activity for May 2024 
E. Concomitant Use of Opioids and Gabapentinoids Mailing Update 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Glipizide 2.5mg Tablet, Inpefa® 
(Sotagliflozin), Lantidra™ (Donislecel-jujn), Metformin 625mg Tablet, 
Zituvio™ (Sitagliptin), and Zituvimet™ (Sitagliptin/Metformin) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Anti-Diabetic Medications and Kerendia® 
(Finerenone) – See Appendix C 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nC. Cost Comparisons 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Izervay™ (Avacincaptad Pegol) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Age-Related Macular Degeneration 
(AMD) Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Izervay™ (Avacincaptad Pegol) Product Summary 
C. Cost Comparison: Complement Inhibitors 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Morgan, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Rezzayo™ (Rezafungin) – See 
Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Rezzayo™ (Rezafungin) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize PrevPac® (Lansoprazole/Amoxicillin/ 
Clarithromycin), Voquenza® (Vonoprazan), Voquenza® Dual Pak® 
(Vonoprazan/Amoxicillin), and Voquenza® Triple Pak® (Vonoprazan/ 
Amoxicillin/Clarithromycin) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Anti-
Ulcer Medications – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations   
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Augtyro™ (Repotrectinib) and 
Pemrydi RTU® (Pemetrexed) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Lung 
Cancer Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
  
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Annual Review of Nasal Allergy Medications –  
See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Nasal Allergy Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Nasal Allergy Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nF. Utilization Details of Nasal Allergy Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. Annual Review of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications and 
30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Akeega® (Niraparib/Abiraterone) and 
Anktiva® (Nogapendekin Alfa Inbakicept-pmln) – See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Morgan, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
12. Annual Review of the SoonerCare Pharmacy Benefit – See Appendix J 
A. Summary 
B. Medicaid Drug Rebate Program 
C. Alternative Payment Models 
D. Drug Approval Trends 
E. Traditional Versus Specialty Pharmacy Products 
F. Top 10 Traditional Therapeutic Classes by Reimbursement 
G. Top 10 Specialty Therapeutic Classes by Reimbursement 
H. Top 10 Medications by Reimbursement 
I. Cost Per Claim 
J. Market Projections 
K. Conclusion 
L. Top 50 Reimbursed Drugs by Calendar Year 
M. Top 50 Medications by Total Number of Claims: Calendar Year 2023 
N. Top 10 Traditional and Specialty Therapeutic Categories by Calendar Year 
O. Calendar Year Age Group Comparison 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
13. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) – See   
Appendix K 
A. Introduction 
B. Rezdiffra™ (Resmetirom) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Risvan® [Risperidone Intramuscular (IM) Injection) – See 
Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nC. Prior Authorization of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
D. Oklahoma Resources 
E. Market News and Updates 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Medications and 30-
Day Notice to Prior Authorize Qalsody® (Tofersen) and Rilutek® (Riluzole 
Oral Tablet) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ALS Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of ALS Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of ALS Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Pulmonary Hypertension Medications and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Liqrev® (Sildenafil Oral Suspension), Opsynvi® 
(Macitentan/Tadalafil), and Winrevair™ (Sotatercept-csrk) –  
See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Pulmonary Hypertension Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Pulmonary Hypertension Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Winrevair™ (Sotatercept-csrk) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparisons 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Pulmonary Hypertension Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
17. Annual Review of Various Special Formulations and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Baclofen 15mg Tablet, Chlorzoxazone 250mg Tablet, Clindacin® 
ETZ Kit (Clindamycin 1% Swabs and Cleanser), Combogesic® IV 
[Acetaminophen/Ibuprofen Intravenous (IV)], Elyxyb™ (Celecoxib Oral 
Solution), Ingrezza® Sprinkle (Valbenazine), Lodoco® (Colchicine), 
Millipred™ (Prednisolone 5mg Tablet), Motpoly XR™ [Lacosamide 
Extended-Release (ER) Capsule], Neo-Synalar® (Neomycin/Fluocinolone 
Cream), Ozobax® DS [Baclofen Double Strength (DS) 10mg/5mL Oral 
Solution], Pokonza™ (Potassium Chloride 10mEq Packet for Oral Solution), 
Suflave™ [Polyethylene Glycol (PEG)-3350/Sodium Sulfate/Potassium 
Chloride/Magnesium Sulfate/Sodium Chloride], and Valsartan Oral 
Solution – See Appendix O 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nA. Introduction 
B. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
C. Utilization of Various Special Formulations 
D. Prior Authorization of Various Special Formulations 
E. Market News and Updates 
F. Product Summaries 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Various Special Formulations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) – See Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
C. Prior Authorization of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Daybue™ (Trofinetide) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Joenja® (Leniolisib) – See Appendix Q 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Joenja® (Leniolisib) 
C. Prior Authorization of Joenja® (Leniolisib) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
20. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix R 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
21. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Alzheimer’s Disease Medications 
B. Colorectal Cancer Medications 
C. Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) Medications 
D. Testosterone Products 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
22. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n