STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2024/november/11132024%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – November 13, 2024 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Megan Hanner –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. John Muchmore –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Vineetha Thomas –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Beth Walton –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_94lCoSe9Ty2msgsLMqg2Ww 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 958 2294 2095 
 
Passcode: 65079339 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. October 9, 2024 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. October 9, 2024 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/Adherence to Asthma 
Maintenance Medications Prior to Adding on Biologic Therapy – See 
Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for October 2024 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for October 2024 
C. Adherence to Asthma Maintenance Medications Prior to Adding on Biologic 
Therapy 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Action Item – Approval of 2025 Drug Utilization Review (DUR) Board 
Meeting Dates – See Appendix C 
A. 2025 DUR Board Meeting Dates 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Bimzelx® (Bimekizumab-bkzx), 
Leqselvi™ (Deuruxolitinib), Omvoh™ (Mirikizumab-mrkz), Otulfi™ 
(Ustekinumab-aauz), Pyzchiva® (Ustekinumab-ttwe), Rinvoq® LQ 
(Upadacitinib Oral Solution), Selarsdi™ (Ustekinumab-aekn), Simlandi® 
(Adalimumab-ryvk), Tyenne® (Tocilizumab-aazg), Velsipity™ (Etrasimod), 
Wezlana™ (Ustekinumab-auub), and Zymfentra™ (Infliximab-dyyb) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Targeted Immunomodulator Agents – 
See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Rivfloza® (Nedosiran) – See   
Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Rivfloza® (Nedosiran) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Casgevy™ (Exagamglogene 
Autotemcel), Lyfgenia® (Lovotibeglogene Autotemcel), Vafseo® 
(Vadadustat), and Xromi® (Hydroxyurea Oral Solution) and Update the 
Approval Criteria for the Anemia Medications – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Annual Review of Multiple Myeloma Medications – See 
Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Multiple Myeloma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Annual Review of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome 
(LEMS) Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of LEMS Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of LEMS Medications 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nD. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendation 
F. Utilization Details of LEMS Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Annual Review of Hereditary Angioedema (HAE) Medications 
– See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of HAE Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of HAE Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison: Icatibant Products 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of HAE Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
12. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Nemluvio® (Nemolizumab-ilto) – See 
Appendix J 
A. Introduction 
B. Nemluvio® (Nemolizumab-ilto) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
13. Annual Review of Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
(COPD) Maintenance Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize 
Ohtuvayre™ (Ensifentrine) – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Ohtuvayre™ (Ensifentrine) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendation 
G. Utilization Details of Asthma and COPD Maintenance Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Ebglyss™ (Lebrikizumab-lbkz) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of AD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of AD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Ebglyss™ (Lebrikizumab-lbkz) Product Summary 
F. Cost Comparisons 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of AD Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\n 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Sohonos™ (Palovarotene) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Sohonos™ (Palovarotene) 
C. Prior Authorization of Sohonos™ (Palovarotene) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Metts, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
16. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix N 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
17. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Antidepressants 
B. Complement Inhibitors and Miscellaneous Immunomodulatory Agents 
C. Lysosomal Storage Disease Medications 
D. Osteoporosis Medications  
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
18. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization reported in this packet is based solely 
on the data provided by the SoonerSelect plans.\n