STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/september/09102025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – September 10, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. July 9, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. July 9, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. August 13, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for August 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for August 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Impact of Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR) 
Modulators – See Appendix C 
A. Introduction 
B. CFTR Modulators 
C. CFTR Modulator Impact 
D. SoonerCare Impact 
E. Conclusions 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Azmiro™ (Testosterone Cypionate) 
and Undecatrex™ (Testosterone Undecanoate) and Update the Approval 
Criteria for the Testosterone Products – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Cost Comparison: Testosterone Products 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Zevaskyn™ (Prademagene 
Zamikeracel) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Epidermolysis 
Bullosa (EB) Medications – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Zevaskyn™ (Prademagene Zamikeracel) Product Summary 
C. Cost Comparison: EB Medications 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Zunveyl® (Benzgalantamine) – See 
Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Cost Comparison: Benzgalantamine and Galantamine Products 
C. College of  Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Blujepa (Gepotidacin), Emblaveo™ 
(Aztreonam/Avibactam), Likmez™ (Metronidazole Oral Suspension), and 
Metronidazole 125mg Tablet and 375mg Capsule and Update the Approval 
Criteria for the Various Systemic Antibiotics – See Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Cost Comparison: Metronidazole Products 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations   
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Tramadol 75mg Tablet and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Opioid Analgesics and Medication-Assisted 
Treatment (MAT) Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Cost Comparison: Tramadol 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Update the Approval Criteria for the Topical 
Corticosteroids – See Appendix I 
A. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Ryoncil® (Remestemcel-L-rknd) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Miscellaneous Cancer Medications – 
See Appendix J 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Ryoncil® (Remestemcel-L-rknd) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Action Item – Annual Review of Camzyos® (Mavacamten) – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Camzyos® (Mavacamten) 
C. Prior Authorization of Camzyos® (Mavacamten) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Camzyos® (Mavacamten) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Action Item – Annual Review of Synagis® (Palivizumab) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Synagis® (Palivizumab) 
C. Prior Authorization of Synagis® (Palivizumab) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Synagis® (Palivizumab) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Action Item – Annual Review of Jynarque® (Tolvaptan) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Jynarque® (Tolvaptan) 
C. Prior Authorization of Jynarque® (Tolvaptan) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Jynarque® (Tolvaptan) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Breast Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Datroway® (Datopotamab Deruxtecan-dlnk) and Itovebi™ 
(Inavolisib) – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Breast Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Breast Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: Trastuzumab Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Breast Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17.  30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Encelto™ (Revakinagene Taroretcel-
lwey) – See Appendix O 
A. Introduction 
B. Encelto™ (Revakinagene Taroretcel-lwey) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of Hyperphosphatemia Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Fosrenol® (Lanthanum Carbonate) 750mg and 1,000mg 
Oral Powder Packet – See Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison: Lanthanum Carbonate Products 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Alyftrek™ (Vanzacaftor/Tezacaftor/Deutivicaftor) – See 
Appendix Q 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of CF Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of CF Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Alyftrek™ (Vanzacaftor/Tezacaftor/Deutivicaftor) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of CF Medications 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Annual Review of Amyloidosis Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Attruby™ (Acoramidis) – See Appendix R 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Amyloidosis Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Amyloidosis Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Attruby™ (Acoramidis) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Amyloidosis Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman 
21. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Photrexa®/Photrexa® Viscous (Riboflavin 
5'-phosphate) – See Appendix S 
A. Introduction  
B. Photrexa®/Photrexa® Viscous (Riboflavin 5’-phosphate) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix T 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
23. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Anticoagulants and Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors 
B. Allergen Immunotherapies 
C. Anemia Medications 
D. Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) Medications 
E. Cushing’s Disease Medications 
F. Hereditary Angioedema (HAE) Medications 
G. Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Medications 
H. Ophthalmic Anti-Inflammatory Products 
I. Targeted Immunomodulator Agents 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
24. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\nthat time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n