STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/july/07092025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – July 9, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. June 11, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. June 11, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for June 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for June 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Travers, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Chronic Medication Adherence (CMA) Program Update – See Appendix C 
A. Introduction 
B. Conclusions 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Cobenfy™ (Xanomeline/Trospium), 
Erzofri® [Paliperidone Palmitate Extended-Release (ER) Injection], and 
Opipza™ (Aripiprazole Oral Film) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Atypical Antipsychotic Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nB. Cobenfy™ (Xanomeline/Trospium) Product Summary 
C. Cost Comparisons 
D. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Carbamazepine 200mg Chewable 
Tablet, Femlyv™ [Norethindrone Acetate/Ethinyl Estradiol Orally 
Disintegrating Tablet (ODT)], Focinvez™ (Fosaprepitant Injection), Imkeldi 
(Imatinib Oral Solution), IVRA (Melphalan 90mg/mL Injection), Myhibbin™ 
(Mycophenolate Mofetil Oral Suspension), Ondansetron 16mg ODT, 
Tezruly™ (Terazosin Oral Solution), Topiramate 50mg Sprinkle Capsule, 
Veltassa® (Patiromer) 1g Powder Packet, and Vigafyde™ (Vigabatrin Oral 
Solution) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Various Special 
Formulations – See Appendix E 
A. Introduction 
B. Product Summaries and College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
C. College of Pharmacy Additional Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Avmapki™ Fakzynja ™ Co-Pack 
(Avutometinib and Defactinib) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Avmapki™ Fakzynja™ Co-Pack (Avutometinib and Defactinib) Product 
Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of CRC Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of CRC Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of CRC Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Annual Review of Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin) – See 
Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin) 
C. Prior Authorization of Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
F. Utilization Details of Defencath® (Taurolidine/Heparin)  
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\n 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Annual Review of Constipation and Diarrhea Medications – 
See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Constipation and Diarrhea Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Constipation and Diarrhea Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Constipation and Diarrhea Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Annual Review of Testosterone Products and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Azmiro™ (Testosterone Cypionate 200mg/mL Syringe) and 
Undecatrex™ (Testosterone Undecanoate Capsule) – See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Testosterone Products 
C. Prior Authorization of Testosterone Products 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparison 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Testosterone Products 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Annual Review of Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Zevaskyn™ (Prademagene Zamikeracel) – See 
Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of EB Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of EB Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Zevaskyn™ (Prademagene Zamikeracel) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of EB Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Alzheimer’s Disease Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Zunveyl® (Benzgalantamine) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Alzheimer’s Disease Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Alzheimer’s Disease Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Zunveyl® (Benzgalantamine) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Alzheimer’s Disease Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\n 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix M 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
No live DUR Board Meeting is scheduled for August 2025. August 2025 will 
be a packet-only meeting. 
A. Iron Products 
B. Opioid Analgesics and Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) Medications 
C. Topical Corticosteroids 
D. Various Systemic Antibiotics 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
17. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans.\n