STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/providers/types/pharmacy/dur-guides/1.2022%20-%20DUR%20Rep%20Guide.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/dur.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nDUR Guide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for Pharmaceutical Industry Representatives 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nOklahoma SoonerCare DUR Process 
 
Page 2 
 
 
 
Each state Medicaid program is allowed to create a structure 
that suits the needs of the state and their population. 
Oklahoma has a very specific and detailed process for drug 
review and placement of drugs into prior authorization 
programs for SoonerCare. 
 
There are two main processes, 
one for drug categories and one for individual drugs: 
 
1. For individual drugs, state law requires 
a 30-day notice prior to a vote by the Drug 
Utilization Review Board. Typically, new 
drugs, drugs with significant clinical 
considerations, or drugs which are indicated 
only in very specific circumstances are 
reviewed individually. The standard process is 
to review the clinical and economic data 
available at one meeting, and if the DUR 
Board recommends a prior authorization, 
there will be a vote at the following meeting. 
2. For establishment of therapeutic catego- 
ries of drugs, the process is much longer. In 
order to prior authorize a new drug category 
with multiple tiers,there must be an economic 
impact presented 60 days prior to the vote. 
This generally comes at some point after a 
category review, which has been placed on 
the Future Business section of the previous 
month’s agenda. At the meeting following the 
economic analysis, the 30-day notice is given, 
followed by a vote the next month. 
 
 
 
 
DUR Meeting 
The Oklahoma DUR Board meets on the second Wednesday of 
every month at the OHCA office. If the meetings are canceled, a 
notice will be posted on the agency website as soon as possible. 
 
Meetings begin at 4 p.m. and generally last 60 to 90 minutes. 
 
Agendas are posted no later than the Friday prior to the meeting. To find 
the agenda on the website, go to https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/dur.  The 
packets are posted as PDF files and are typically fairly large files. Packets are available on the 
website for all calendar years starting in 2004. There are annual reports available 
under the Additional Reports link in this same section that are not reviewed in the 
DUR meetings. 
Individual Drug Process 
• First meeting: 30-day notice with clinical and economic analysis. 
• Second meeting: Vote. 
Establishment of a New Tiered Therapeutic Category Process 
• First meeting: Appears on Future Business section. 
• Second meeting: 60-day economic impact. 
• Third meeting: 30-day notice of vote. 
• Fourth meeting: Vote. 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nOklahoma SoonerCare DUR Process 
 
Page 3 
 
 
To sign up for public comment, email a completed DUR Board testimony registration form 
(PHARM – 138) to DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms can be found at 
https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/rx or on the DUR page https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/dur. 
Public Comment Period 
Each DUR Board meeting includes a time for public comment. The time will be limited to 40 
minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be given five minutes to 
speak at the public hearing. If more than eight speakers properly request to speak, time will 
be divided evenly. One speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 
 
DUR Board Members 
DUR Board members are recommended by organizations as set in 
state statute. The recommending bodies are the Oklahoma State 
Medical Association, the Oklahoma Osteopathic Association, the 
Oklahoma Pharmacists Association, Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. 
 
The OSMA recommends three members; the OOA recommends one member; OPhA rec- 
ommends four members; PhRMA recommends one member; and OHCA is allowed to rec- 
ommend one person who is neither a pharmacist nor a physician. For a current list of DUR 
Board members, please visit our website at https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/dur.  
 
Supplemental Rebates 
 
In January 2000, OHCA started the Product Based Prior Authorization 
Program. In 2004, as an extension of that program, OHCA began 
accepting supplemental rebates from manufacturers that would remove 
or reduce the prior authorization process for their products. 
 
Each state has a different mechanism of setting rebates and contracting. 
Oklahoma is part of the Sovereign States Drug Consortium 
for rebate negotiations. 
 
There are no supplemental rebate negotiations or discussions during the DUR Board 
process. The DUR Board is not brought into rebate discussions due to confidentiality. It is 
their responsibility to look at clinical and economic factors, excluding rebates, in order to 
evaluate the medications. It is appropriate to discuss the specifics of drug rebate contracts 
only with the OHCA staff member named in the documentation accompanying the contract 
offer. It is not appropriate to discuss rebate offers with the DUR Board members or the PMC 
staff at any time during the process. 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nOklahoma SoonerCare DUR Process 
 
Page 4 
 
 
Federal optional categories for which Oklahoma provides no coverage: 
• Cough and cold. 
• Fertility. 
• Cosmetic. 
• Weight loss or gain. 
• Nutritional supplements. 
• Sexual or erectile dysfunction. 
Product Based Prior Authorization Program 
Many states utilize a preferred drug list in their Medicaid programs. Oklahoma uses a 
program called Product Based Prior Authorization. This program was implemented in 2000 
to address therapeutic categories for which there are generic products along with the single 
source branded products. 
 
This program divides certain therapeutic categories of drugs into two or more levels called 
tiers. Tier 1 medications are preferred as the first step for treating a member’s health 
condition. They are cost effective and are usually available without prior authorization. 
Members that do not achieve a clinical success with Tier 1 medications may qualify to obtain 
a Tier 2 or Tier 3 medication. Most of the PBPA categories are set up so if a member meets 
the step therapy criteria, their claim for the next highest tier will process without a manual 
PA. Alternately, a manual PA may be required so OHCA will have documentation of the step 
therapy or other clinical information necessary to approve the use of a Tier 2 or 
higher medication. 
 
For a list of prior authorized medications, visit our website at: https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/pa.  
 
General Drug Coverage Information 
In order to be covered by Oklahoma SoonerCare, a drug must have 
a federal drug rebate in effect and must not be in one of the optional 
coverage categories for which no coverage is provided. 
 
Oklahoma contracts with First Data Bank and receives weekly 
updates from them. Drugs not listed with First Data Bank will not be 
included in the claims processing system for Oklahoma SoonerCare. 
 
Please email the pharmacy department at Pharmacy@okhca.org for more information. 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nOklahoma SoonerCare DUR Process 
 
Page 5 
 
 
 
Contacting OHCA Pharmacy Department Staff 
 
The OHCA pharmacy department is divided into two sections. The drug rebate unit and the 
pharmacy operations unit. The pharmacy department routinely receives inquiries from 
manufacturer representatives about how to best work with OHCA. 
 
For general policy or coverage questions, you will find a wealth of information on our 
website: https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/rx.  If you cannot find the answer to your question, 
please send an email to Pharmacy@okhca.org. 
 
For questions regarding invoicing, payment tracking and dispute resolution for the drug 
rebate program, the drug rebate unit can be contacted by emailing inquiries 
to DrugRebateUnit@okhca.org. 
 
Contacting the PMC Staff 
 
OHCA contracts with Pharmacy Management Consultants at the University of Oklahoma 
College of Pharmacy. The pharmacists at PMC prepare drug utilization review reports for the 
DUR Board and communicate with prescribers and pharmacists. They also support the 
pharmacy help desk and the medication prior authorization unit. 
 
Pharmacists who are preparing a drug or category review do not speak with manufacturer 
representatives prior to the presentation of the report. If they need access to unpublished 
studies or other materials, they will initiate a request. 
 
Continuing education presentations are always welcome by the staff at PMC. Appointments 
are available beginning the day after the DUR meeting through the end of the month. PMC 
can be contacted at 405-271-9039.\n