STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2026/march/03112026%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – March 11, 2026 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
 
Ms. Jennifer Boyett –  
 
 
participating in person 
Dr. Christen Ground –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 In lieu of speaking at the DUR Board meeting, written correspondence by 
members or providers may be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Other written correspondence is not 
permitted.  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. February 11, 2026 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. February 11, 2026 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for September 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for September 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. Spring Pipeline Update – See Appendix C 
A. Introduction 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Pipeline Table 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Yutrepia™ (Treprostinil Powder for 
Inhalation) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Pulmonary 
Hypertension Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Yutrepia™ (Treprostinil Powder for Inhalation) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Brekiya® [Dihydroergotamine (DHE) 
Autoinjector] and Update the Approval Criteria for the Anti-Migraine 
Medications – See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Cost Comparison: DHE Products 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Cardamyst™ (Etripamil Nasal Spray) – 
See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Cardamyst™ (Etripamil Nasal Spray) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Ratterman, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Annual Review of Hemophilia Medications – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Hemophilia Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Hemophilia Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Oklahoma Health Care Authority Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Hemophilia Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss,  Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Annual Review of Muscular Dystrophy Medications – See 
Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Muscular Dystrophy Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Muscular Dystrophy Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
F. Utilization Details of Muscular Dystrophy Medications 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Annual Review of Leukemia and Lymphoma Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Komzifti™ (Ziftomenib), Lymphir™ (Denileukin 
Diftitox-cxdl), Lunsumio VELO™ (Mosunetuzumab-axgb), Nilotinib D-
Tartrate, and Phyrago™ (Dasatinib) – See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Leukemia and Lymphoma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Leukemia and Lymphoma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Leukemia and Lymphoma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Fesilty™ (Fibrinogen, Human-chmt) – See 
Appendix J 
A. Introduction 
B. Fesilty™ (Fibrinogen, Human-chmt) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Waskyra™ (Etuvetidigene Autotemcel) – 
See Appendix K 
A. Introduction 
B. Waskyra™ (Etuvetidigene Autotemcel) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Growth-Related Disorder Medications and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Daybue® Stix (Trofinetide Packet), Palsonify™ 
(Paltusotine), Vykat™ XR [Diazoxide Choline Extended-Release (ER)], and 
Yuviwel® (Navepegritide) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Growth-Related Disorder Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Growth-Related Disorder Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Growth-Related Disorder Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Glaucoma Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Zolymbus™ (Bimatoprost Ophthalmic Gel) – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Glaucoma Medications 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nC. Prior Authorization of Glaucoma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Glaucoma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factors (G-CSFs) and 
Stem Cell Mobilizers and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Nypozi™ 
(Filgrastim-txid) – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of G-CSFs and Stem Cell Mobilizers 
C. Prior Authorization of G-CSFs and Stem Cell Mobilizers 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of G-CSFs and Stem Cell Mobilizers 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Grimes, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. Annual Review of Dry Eye Disease (DED) Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Tryptyr® (Acoltremon 0.003% Ophthalmic Solution) – See 
Appendix O 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of DED Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of DED Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Tryptyr® (Acoltremon 0.003% Ophthalmic Solution) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
G. Utilization Details of DED Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of Topical Antibiotic Products and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Clindesse® (Clindamycin Phosphate 2% Vaginal Cream) – See 
Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Topical Antibiotic Products 
C. Prior Authorization of Topical Antibiotic Products 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Topical Antibiotic Products 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix Q 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nNon-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) Medications 
B. Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Narcolepsy Medications 
C. Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) Medications 
D. Lung Cancer Medications 
E. Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Medications 
F. Primary Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy (IgAN) Medications 
G. Rethymic® (Allogeneic Processed Thymus Tissue-agdc) 
H. Sofdra™ (Sofpironium) 
I. Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
21. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans. SoonerSelect PA data only includes medications billed as pharmacy claims 
(NDC) and does not include those billed as medical claims (HCPCS), where 
applicable.\n