STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2025/may/05142025%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – May 14, 2025 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss –  
 
 
participating in person 
Mr. Kenneth Foster –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. James Osborne –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Beth Walton –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_94lCoSe9Ty2msgsLMqg2Ww 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 958 2294 2095 
 
Passcode: 65079339 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
Public Comment for Meeting: 
▪ Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
▪ The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
▪ Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
▪ Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. April 9, 2025 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. April 9, 2025 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for April 2025 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for April 2025 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Travers, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. SoonerPsych and Pediatric SoonerPsych Antipsychotic Monitoring 
Program Update – See Appendix C 
A. SoonerPsych Prescriber Mailing Summary 
B. SoonerPsych Trends 
C. Pediatric SoonerPsych Antipsychotic Monitoring Program Prescriber Mailing 
Summary 
D. Pediatric SoonerPsych Trends 
E. Conclusions 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
Items to be presented by Dr. Ratterman, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Alhemo® (Concizumab-mtci), 
Beqvez™ (Fidanacogene Elaparvovec), Hympavzi™ (Marstacimab-hncq), 
and Qfitlia™ (Fitusiran) and Update the Approval Criteria for the 
Hemophilia Medications – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. Oklahoma Health Care Authority Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Adzynma (ADAMTS13, Recombinant-
krhn) and Alvaiz® (Eltrombopag)– See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Journavx™ (Suzetrigine) – See 
Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Journavx™ (Suzetrigine) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Xolremdi® (Mavorixafor) and Update 
the Approval Criteria for the Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factors       
(G-CSFs) and Stem Cell Mobilizers – See Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Xolremdi® (Mavorixafor) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Ocrevus Zunovo™ (Ocrelizumab/ 
Hyaluronidase-ocsq) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Multiple 
Sclerosis (MS) Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Agamree® (Vamorolone) and 
Duvyzat™ (Givinostat) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Muscular 
Dystrophy Medications – See Appendix I 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nC. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Action Item – Annual Review of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) 
Medications – See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of SMA Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of SMA Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of SMA Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Annual Review of Lung Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Axtle™ (Pemetrexed), Bizengri® (Zenocutuzumab-zbco), 
Imdelltra™ (Tarlatamab-dlle), Lazcluze™ (Lazertinib), and Tecentriq 
Hybreza™ (Atezolizumab/Hyaluronidase-tqjs) – See Appendix K 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Lung Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Lung Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: Pemetrexed Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Lung Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Annual Review of Botulinum Toxins and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize 
Daxxify® (DaxibotulinumtoxinA-lanm) – See Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Botulinum Toxins 
C. Prior Authorization of Botulinum Toxins 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Daxxify® (DaxibotulinumtoxinA-lanm) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Botulinum Toxins 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Anti-Diabetic Medications and Kerendia® (Finerenone) 
and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Brynovin™ (Sitagliptin Oral Solution), 
Glimepiride 3mg Tablet, Metformin 750mg Tablet, Merilog™ (Insulin 
Aspart-szjj), and Zituvimet™ XR [Sitagliptin/Metformin Extended-Release 
(ER)] – See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Anti-Diabetic Medications and Kerendia® (Finerenone) 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nC. Prior Authorization of Anti-Diabetic Medications and Kerendia® (Finerenone) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Cost Comparisons 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Anti-Diabetic Medications and Kerendia® (Finerenone) 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and 
Narcolepsy Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Onyda™ XR 
[Clonidine Extended-Release (ER) Oral Suspension] – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
D. Oklahoma Resources 
E. Market News and Updates 
F. Onyda™ XR (Clonidine ER Suspension) Product Summary 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Sofdra™ (Sofpironium 12.45% Topical Gel) 
– See Appendix O 
A. Introduction 
B. Sofdra™ (Sofpironium 12.45% Topical Gel) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) Medications 
and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Enzeevu™ (Aflibercept-abzv), 
Opuviz™ (Aflibercept-yszy), and Yesafili™ (Aflibercept-jbvf) – See 
Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of AMD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of AMD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Cost Comparison: Aflibercept Biosimilars 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of AMD Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Parkinson’s Disease (PD) Medications and 30-Day Notice 
to Prior Authorize Crexont® [Carbidopa/Levodopa Extended-Release (ER) 
Capsule], Onapgo™ (Apomorphine Injection for Continuous Infusion), and 
Vyalev™ (Foscarbidopa/Foslevodopa Injection for Continuous Infusion) – 
See Appendix Q 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nA. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of PD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of PD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: Oral Carbidopa/Levodopa Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of PD Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. Annual Review of Primary Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy (IgAN) 
Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Vanrafia™ (Atrasentan) – 
See Appendix R 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Primary IgAN Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Primary IgAN Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Vanrafia™ (Atrasentan) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Primary IgAN Medications 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
21. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix S 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Antiviral Medications 
B. Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
C. Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
D. Various Special Formulations 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
23. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\nHealth. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans.\n