STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2026/april/04082026%20DUR%20Agenda.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Meeting – April 8, 2026 @ 4:00pm 
at the 
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
The DUR Board will meet at 4:00pm at OHCA (see address above). 
There will be Zoom access to this meeting; however, Zoom access will be set 
up in view-only mode with no voting, speaking, video, or chat box privileges. 
Zoom access will allow for viewing of the presentation slides as well as 
audio of the presentations and discussion during the meeting; however, the 
DUR Board meeting will not be delayed or rescheduled due to any technical 
issues that may arise. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
1. Call to Order 
A. Roll Call – Dr. Wilcox 
 
DUR Board Members: 
 
Dr. Cassidy Blaiss – 
 
 
participating in person  
Ms. Jennifer Boyett –  
 
 
participating in person 
Dr. Christen Ground –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bret Haymore –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Bethany Holderread –  
 
participating in person  
Dr. Matt John – 
  
 
 
participating in person  
Dr. Craig Kupiec –  
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Lee Muñoz –   
 
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Edna Patatanian –   
 
participating in person 
 
Dr. Jennifer Weakley –   
 
participating in person 
 
Viewing Access Only via Zoom: 
Please register for the meeting at: 
 
https://oklahoma.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_B7-m8jKcQWaA9HEiV7QRQA 
 
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information 
about joining the webinar. 
 
Or join by phone: 
 
Dial: +1-602-753-0140 or +1-669-219-2599 
 
Webinar ID: 928 6649 0447 
 
Passcode: 80744869 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPublic Comment for Meeting: 
 Speakers who wish to sign up for public comment at the OHCA DUR Board 
meeting may do so in writing by visiting the DUR Board page on the OHCA 
website at www.oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-
utilization-review/dur-board and completing the Speaker Registration Form. 
Completed Speaker Registration forms should be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Forms must be received after the DUR 
Board agenda has been posted and no later than 24 hours before the 
meeting. 
 The DUR Board meeting will allow public comment and time will be limited 
to 40 minutes total for all speakers during the meeting. Each speaker will be 
given 5 minutes to speak at the public hearing. If more than 8 speakers 
properly request to speak, time will be divided evenly. 
 Only 1 speaker per manufacturer will be allowed. 
 Any speakers who sign up for public comment must attend the DUR Board 
meeting in person at OHCA (see above address). Public comment through 
Zoom will not be allowed for the DUR Board meeting. 
 In lieu of speaking at the DUR Board meeting, written correspondence by 
members or providers may be submitted to 
DURPublicComment@okhca.org. Other written correspondence is not 
permitted.  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
2. Public Comment Forum 
A. Acknowledgement of Speakers for Public Comment 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
3. Action Item – Approval of DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. March 11, 2026 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. March 11, 2026 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
C. Correspondence 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
4. Update on the Medication Coverage Authorization Unit – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for March 2026 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for March 2026 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Travers, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
5. SoonerPsych and Pediatric SoonerPsych Antipsychotic Monitoring 
Program Update – See Appendix C 
A. SoonerPsych Prescriber Mailing Summary 
B. SoonerPsych Example Gauge 
C. SoonerPsych Trends 
D. Pediatric SoonerPsych Prescriber Mailing Summary 
E. Pediatric SoonerPsych Trends 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nF. Conclusions 
G. Summary 
 
Items to be presented by Dr, DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
6. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Nypozi™ (Filgrastim-txid) and 
Update the Approval Criteria for the Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating 
Factors (G-CSFs) and Stem Cell Mobilizers – See Appendix D 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
7. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Fesilty™ (Fibrinogen, Human-chmt) – 
See Appendix E 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Fesilty™ (Fibrinogen, Human-chmt) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
8. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Daybue® Stix (Trofinetide Packet), 
Palsonify™ (Paltusotine), Vykat™ XR [Diazoxide Choline Extended-Release 
(ER)], and Yuviwel® (Navepegritide) and Update the Approval Criteria for 
the Growth-Related Disorder Medications – See Appendix F 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
9. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Waskyra™ (Etuvetidigene 
Autotemcel) – See Appendix G 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Waskyra™ (Etuvetidigene Autotemcel) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Grimes, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
10. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Tryptyr® (Acoltremon 0.003% 
Ophthalmic Solution) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Dry Eye 
Disease (DED) Medications – See Appendix H 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Tryptyr® (Acoltremon 0.003% Ophthalmic Solution) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Moss,  Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
11. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Zolymbus™ (Bimatoprost 0.1% Gel) 
and Update the Approval Criteria for the Glaucoma Medications – See 
Appendix I 
A. Market News and Updates  
B. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
12. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Clindesse® (Clindamycin Phosphate 
2% Vaginal Cream) and Update the Approval Criteria for the Topical 
Antibiotic Products – See Appendix J 
A. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
13. Action Item – Vote to Prior Authorize Komzifti™ (Ziftomenib), Lymphir™ 
(Denileukin Diftitox-cxdl), Lunsumio VELO™ (Mosunetuzumab-axgb), 
Nilotinib D-Tartrate, and Phyrago™ (Dasatinib) and Update the Approval 
Criteria for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Medications – See Appendix K 
A. Market News and Updates 
B. Product Summaries 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
14. Action Item – Annual Review of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Medications – See 
Appendix L 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of MS Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of MS Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of MS Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Sinko, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
15. Annual Review of Lung Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Avgemsi™ (Gemcitabine), Emrelis™ (Telisotuzumab Vedotin-
tllv), Ensacove™ (Ensartinib), Hernexeos® (Zongertinib), Hyrnuo® 
(Sevabertinib), Ibtrozi™ (Taletrectinib), and Rybrevant Faspro™ 
(Amivantamab/Hyaluronidase-lpuj)– See Appendix M 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Lung Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Lung Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. Cost Comparison: Gemcitabine Products 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nH. Utilization Details of Lung Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
16. Annual Review of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and 
Narcolepsy Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Arynta™ 
(Lisdexamfetamine Oral Solution) and Atoncy™ (Atomoxetine Oral 
Solution) – See Appendix N 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
D. Oklahoma Resources 
E. Market News and Updates 
F. Product Summaries 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of ADHD and Narcolepsy Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
17. Annual Review of Primary Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy (IgAN) 
Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Voyxact® 
(Sibeprenlimab-szsi) – See Appendix O 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of IgAN Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of IgAN Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Voyxact® (Sibeprenlimab-szsi) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations  
G. Utilization Details of IgAN Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
18. Annual Review of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Itvisma® (Onasemnogene Abeparvovec-brve) – 
See Appendix P 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of SMA Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of SMA Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Itvisma® (Onasemnogene Abeparvovec-brve) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of SMA Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Grimes, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
19. Annual Review of Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Jascayd® (Nerandomilast) – See Appendix Q 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ILD Medications 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nC. Prior Authorization of ILD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Jascayd® (Nerandomilast) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of ILD Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Dorsey, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
20. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Rethymic® (Allogeneic Processed 
Thymus Tissue-agdc)  – See Appendix R 
A. Introduction 
B. Rethymic® (Allogeneic Processed Thymus Tissue-agdc) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
21. Annual Review of Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) Medications 
and 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Eydenzelt® (Aflibercept-boav) – See  
Appendix S 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of AMD Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of AMD Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of AMD Medications 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. DeRemer, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
22. Annual Review of Sofdra™ (Sofpironium 12.45% Topical Gel) – See 
Appendix T 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Sofdra™ (Sofpironium 12.45% Topical Gel) 
C. Prior Authorization of Sofdra™ (Sofpironium 12.45% Topical Gel) 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
23. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix U 
 
Non-presentation items reviewed by Dr. Adams, Dr. Haymore, Chairman: 
24. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
There is no DUR Board meeting scheduled for May 2026. 
A. Anti-Emetic Medications 
B. Antiviral Medications 
C. Atypical Antipsychotic Medications 
D. Genitourinary and Gynecologic Cancer Medications 
E. Urea Cycle Disorder (UCD) Medications 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\nF. Various Special Formulations 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change.  
 
25. Adjournment 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population. 
 
NOTE: Oklahoma Medicaid transitioned from a fee-for-service (FFS) pharmacy 
benefit to a managed care pharmacy benefit for most members on April 1, 2024. At 
that time, the majority of SoonerCare members were transitioned to one of the 
three managed care SoonerSelect plans: Aetna, Humana, or Oklahoma Complete 
Health. SoonerSelect data has been provided to the College of Pharmacy and has 
been used in analyses throughout this DUR Board meeting packet. The data 
included in this DUR Board meeting packet combines FFS and managed care 
utilization data. The managed care utilization and prior authorization (PA) data 
reported in this packet is based solely on the data provided by the SoonerSelect 
plans.\n