STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2024/january/DUR%20Agenda%2001102024.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Packet Meeting – January 10, 2024 
NOTE: 
No live January meeting. January 2024 is a packet-only meeting. 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. December 13, 2023 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. December 13, 2023 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/Annual Eye Exam in 
Members with Glaucoma – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for December 2023 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for December 2023 
C. Annual Eye Exam in Members with Glaucoma 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Annual Review of Antihyperlipidemics and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Atorvaliq® (Atorvastatin Oral Suspension) – See Appendix C 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antihyperlipidemics 
C. Prior Authorization of Antihyperlipidemics 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Antihyperlipidemics 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Morgan, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Annual Review of Bladder Control Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Oxybutynin 2.5mg Tablet – See Appendix D 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Bladder Control Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Bladder Control Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Oxybutynin Cost Comparison 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Bladder Control Medications 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Annual Review of Gastrointestinal (GI) Cancer Medications – See   
Appendix E 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of GI Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of GI Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of GI Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Annual Review of Glaucoma Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize iDose® TR (Travoprost Intracameral Implant) – See Appendix F 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Glaucoma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Glaucoma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. iDose® TR (Travoprost Intracameral Implant) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Glaucoma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Annual Review of Hyperphosphatemia Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Xphozah® (Tenapanor) – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Xphozah® (Tenapanor) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Hyperphosphatemia Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. Annual Review of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Iwilfin™ (Eflornithine), Kepivance® (Palifermin), Loqtorzi™ 
(Toripalimab-tpzi), and Omisirge® (Omidubicel-onlv) – See Appendix H 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Product Summaries 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Ogsiveo™ (Nirogacestat) – See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
D. Market News and Updates  
E. Ogsiveo™ (Nirogacestat) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Non-Malignant Solid Tumor Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix J 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Anti-Migraine Medications 
B. Antiviral Medications 
C. Leukemia Medications 
D. Topical Acne, Psoriasis, and Rosacea Products 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n