STATE: Oklahoma\nURL: https://oklahoma.gov/content/dam/ok/en/okhca/docs/about/boards-and-committees/dur/2023/january/DUR%20Agenda%2001112023.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://oklahoma.gov/ohca/about/boards-and-committees/drug-utilization-review/dur-board-meeting-agendas/archives.html\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Oklahoma Health Care Authority 
Drug Utilization Review Board 
(DUR Board) 
Packet – January 11, 2023  
Oklahoma Health Care Authority (OHCA) 
4345 N. Lincoln Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105 
NOTE: 
No live January meeting. January 2023 is a packet-only meeting 
 
AGENDA 
Discussion and action on the following items: 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
1. DUR Board Meeting Minutes – See Appendix A 
A. December 14, 2022 DUR Board Meeting Minutes  
B. December 14, 2022 DUR Board Recommendations Memorandum 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Kottoor, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
2. Update on Medication Coverage Authorization Unit/U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) Safety Alerts – See Appendix B 
A. Pharmacy Help Desk Activity for December 2022 
B. Medication Coverage Activity for December 2022 
C. FDA Safety Alerts 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
3. Annual Review of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Medications – 
See Appendix C 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of GnRH Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of GnRH Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of GnRH Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Wilson, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
4. Annual Review of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Medications and 30-
Day Notice to Prior Authorize Relyvrio™ (Sodium Phenylbutyrate/ 
Taurursodiol) – See Appendix D 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of ALS Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of ALS Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Relyvrio™ (Sodium Phenylbutyrate/Taurursodiol) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nG. Utilization Details of ALS Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. O’Halloran, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
5. Annual Review of Antihyperlipidemics – See Appendix E 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Antihyperlipidemics 
C. Prior Authorization of Antihyperlipidemics 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
F. Utilization Details of Antihyperlipidemics 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Kottoor, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
6. Annual Review of Ophthalmic Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) 
Inhibitor Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior Vabysmo™ (Faricimab-
svoa) – See Appendix F 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Ophthalmic VEGF Inhibitor Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Ophthalmic VEGF Inhibitor Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Vabysmo™ (Faricimab-svoa) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Ophthalmic VEGF Inhibitor Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
7. Annual Review of Glaucoma Medications and 30-Day Notice to Prior 
Authorize Omlonti® (Omidenepag Isopropyl) – See Appendix G 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Glaucoma Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Glaucoma Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Omlonti® (Omidenepag Isopropyl) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
G. Utilization Details of Glaucoma Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
8. 30-Day Notice to Prior Authorize Hyftor™ (Sirolimus Topical Gel) – See 
Appendix H 
A. Introduction 
B. Hyftor™ (Sirolimus Topical Gel) Product Summary 
C. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nItems to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
9. Annual Review of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications and 30-Day Notice to 
Prior Authorize Pedmark® (Sodium Thiosulfate) and Vijoice® (Alpelisib) – 
See Appendix I 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Pedmark® (Sodium Thiosulfate) Product Summary 
F. Vijoice® (Alpelisib) Product Summary 
G. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
H. Utilization Details of Miscellaneous Cancer Medications 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Borders, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
10. Annual Review of Gastrointestinal (GI) Cancer Medications and 30-Day 
Notice to Prior Authorize Lytgobi® (Futibatinib) – See Appendix J 
A. Current Prior Authorization Criteria 
B. Utilization of GI Cancer Medications 
C. Prior Authorization of GI Cancer Medications 
D. Market News and Updates 
E. Lytgobi® (Futibatinib) Product Summary 
F. College of Pharmacy Recommendations 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Moss, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
11. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Updates – See Appendix K 
 
Items to be presented by Dr. Adams, Dr. Muchmore, Chairman: 
12. Future Business* (Upcoming Product and Class Reviews) 
A. Anticonvulsants 
B. Anti-Migraine Medications 
C. Leukemia Medications 
D. Pulmonary Hypertension Medications 
*Future product and class reviews subject to change. 
 
NOTE: An analysis of the atypical [Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD)] patient 
subgroup of the Oklahoma Medicaid population has been performed pertaining to 
all recommendations included in this DUR Board meeting packet to ensure fair and 
knowledgeable deliberation of the potential impact of the recommendations on 
this patient population.\n