STATE: Vermont
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/assets/All-Senate-Documents/Senate-Rules.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/33/019/01999

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
PERMANENT RULES 
 
OF THE 
 
VERMONT SENATE 
 
 
 
 
 
(2025 edition)
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
1 
Permanent Rules 
of the Vermont Senate 
 
(Adopted March 3, 1989) 
(with Amendments of February 21, 1997, February 12, 2003, May 20, 2004, 
January 5, 2007, April 22, 2008, February 7, 2013, March 22 and April 19, 
2016, May 23, 2019, January 6, 2021, January 4 and January 5, 2023, and 
January 8, 2025) 
 
RULES AND ORDERS OF THE SENATE 
I 
ORGANIZATION 
1.  The credentials of senators shall be presented to the President (or 
in the President's absence the person designated to call the Senate to order) and 
delivered to the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, previous to ten o'clock in the 
forenoon of the first Wednesday next after the first Monday, of January, 
following their election. 
2.  At ten o'clock the Senate shall be called to order by the President of 
the Senate. The President or Secretary shall administer the oath of office to the 
Senators; and, unless otherwise ordered, to the Lieutenant Governor-elect upon 
report of the joint canvassing committee. 
2A.  The Senators from the Addison Senatorial District shall occupy 
seats numbered 18 and 19; from the Bennington Senatorial District, seats 
numbered 5 and 6; from the Caledonia Senatorial District, seat number 25; from 
the Chittenden-Central Senatorial District, seats numbered 10, 11 and 12; from 
the Chittenden-North Senatorial District, seat number 27; from the Chittenden-
Southeast Senatorial District, seats numbered 7, 8 and 9;  from the Essex 
Senatorial District, seat number 3; from the Franklin Senatorial District, seats 
numbered 20 and 21; from the Grand Isle Senatorial District, seat number 26; 
from the Lamoille Senatorial District, seat number 1; from the Orange 
Senatorial District, seat number 4; from the Orleans Senatorial District, seat 
number 2; from the Rutland Senatorial District, seats numbered 22, 23 and 24; 
from the Washington Senatorial District, seats numbered 28, 29 and 30; from 
the Windham Senatorial District, seats numbered 16 and 17; and from the 
Windsor Senatorial District, seats numbered 13, 14 and 15. 
The Senators from each district shall decide upon the seating of the 
Senators from their respective districts. 


--- Page 4 ---
2 
3.  The names of the Senators shall be called, and when a quorum shall 
have taken their seats, they shall take and subscribe the following oath, viz:-- 
"I, ...................................., Senator from .................................... County 
(or Counties), in the General Assembly of the State of Vermont, do solemnly 
swear, that as a Member of this Assembly, I will not propose or assent to any 
bill, vote or resolution, which shall appear to me injurious to the people, nor do 
or consent to any act or thing whatever that shall have a tendency to lessen or 
abridge their rights and privileges, as declared by the Constitution of this State; 
but will in all things conduct myself as a faithful, honest representative and 
guardian of the people, according to the best of my judgment and ability. So help 
me God. I do solemnly swear that I will be true and faithful to the State of 
Vermont, and that I will not, directly or indirectly, do any act or thing injurious 
to the Constitution or Government thereof. So help me God. I do solemnly swear 
that I did not at the time of my election to this body, and that I do not now hold 
any office of profit or trust under the authority of Congress. So help me God. I 
do further solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the State of 
Vermont and the Constitution of the United States. So help me God." 
Provided, that at the request of a senator the word "affirm" shall be 
substituted for "swear," and the words "under the pains and penalties of perjury" 
for "So help me God." 
4.  The Senate shall forthwith proceed to elect by ballot and in the order 
named, a secretary, a president pro tempore and a senator to serve with the 
president and the president pro tempore as a member of the committee on 
committees who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties. It may 
also elect or designate a chaplain or chaplains. In the event of the death or 
resignation of the secretary or the president pro tempore or removal from office 
or inability to exercise the powers and discharge the duties appertaining to the 
office, the Senate shall as soon as practicable proceed to elect by ballot a 
successor who shall then be sworn to the faithful discharge of the duties of the 
office. 
5.  The President shall nominate canvassing committees, provided for 
by the joint rules, who shall be elected by the Senate; but the Senate may reject 
any member so nominated and shall fill the vacancy caused thereby. Said 
committees shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties and shall make 
their report to the Joint Assembly of both houses. 
6.  As soon as may be after the convening of each biennial session, the 
President of the Senate, the President pro tempore, and one senator elected by 
the Senate shall comprise the committee to be known as the Committee on 
Committees. The Committee on Committees shall appoint the members, on the 
part of the Senate, of the permanent joint standing committee on Joint Rules, 
and all committees of the Senate, and all other committees requiring 


--- Page 5 ---
3 
appointment of members of the Senate, unless otherwise provided by statute; but 
any appointment so made may, on motion of a senator, be overruled by the 
Senate; in which case the Senate shall, on nomination of a senator, immediately 
fill the vacancy. Any motion to overrule the appointments of the Committee on 
Committees must be made not later than the next legislative day following the 
announcement of the committee appointments to the Senate. 
In the event that a senator is absent from the Senate for more than two 
weeks or a senator requests leave of the Senate to be absent therefrom for more 
than two weeks, the Committee on Committees may designate any other senator 
to occupy temporarily a position on the standing committees to which such 
absent senator is assigned. Such temporarily assigned senator shall have all the 
powers of a regular member on such assigned committee but shall be the most 
junior member of the committee. The temporary assignment or assignments shall 
terminate absolutely upon return of the absent senator to committee duties or 
upon order of the Committee on Committees. 
II 
OF SESSIONS OF THE SENATE 
7.  The Senate shall meet every day at nine o'clock and thirty minutes 
in the forenoon and at one o'clock and thirty minutes in the afternoon, unless 
otherwise ordered. 
8.  Whenever the Senate shall assemble, according to adjournment, or 
at the commencement of a session, and the President and President pro tempore 
be absent, it shall be the duty of the Secretary, if present, or if absent, of a 
senator, to call the Senate to order, and the senators present, if a quorum, shall 
elect a President pro tempore, who shall preside until the return of the President 
or the President pro tempore, named in Rule 4. 
9.  In case no quorum shall assemble within fifteen minutes after the 
time to which the Senate was adjourned, or if a roll call or division of the Senate 
discloses no quorum present and voting, those present shall have the power to 
send the Sergeant-at-Arms or other officer after the absentees, and to compel 
their attendance, or to adjourn. 
9A.  In the event the Governor issues a Declaration of Emergency, 
during the Declaration of Emergency: 
 
(a) The Rules Committee may authorize that a session or sessions of 
the Senate during such declared emergency be concurrently conducted 
electronically at which one or more Senators may participate, debate, deliberate 
and vote in a meeting of the Senate from a remote location. If necessary, the 
Rules Committee may make this authorization remotely in conformance with this 
Rule. 


--- Page 6 ---
4 
 
(b) Each Senator voting remotely shall do so using both audio and 
video capability in a format approved by the Rules Committee.  
 
(c) The format authorized by the Rules Committee for a session of 
the Senate shall enable public access in a manner consistent with Vermont's 
Constitution.  
 
(d) A Senator participating remotely shall be considered present 
and in attendance at the meeting of the Senate, including for purposes of 
determining if a quorum is present. Both present and remotely connected 
Senators compliant with the terms of this Rule shall be counted towards a 
quorum of the whole. 
 
(e) When a Senator participating remotely desires to address the 
Senate, the Senator shall notify the Presiding Officer through the electronic 
means used by the Senator to participate remotely. When recognized, the 
Presiding Officer shall announce the Senator and the Senator may speak 
through the same electronic means as if physically present on the Senate floor. 
 
(f) To the extent practicable, a Senator participating remotely under 
this rule shall participate from the Senator's senatorial district. 
 
(g) The authority of the Rules Committee under this Rule 9A 
terminates upon the expiration of the Declared Emergency. 
III 
OF SENATORS 
10.  No senator shall be absent from sessions of the Senate or meetings 
of committees unless sick or otherwise necessarily detained. 
11.  No senator shall speak audibly to another, or otherwise interrupt 
the business of the Senate, while public papers are being read, or while a senator 
is speaking in debate. No senator shall speak in debate unless standing in place 
and addressing the President; and smoking shall not be allowed in the Senate 
chamber, the Senate cloakroom, Secretary’s offices, or Senate committee rooms. 
12.  Upon being called to order, a senator shall be seated. Every 
question of order shall be decided by the President without debate, subject to an 
appeal to the Senate. 
13.  If a senator shall be called to order for words spoken, the 
exceptionable words shall be immediately taken down in writing by the senator 
calling to order, so that the President may be better enabled to judge the matter. 
14.  Subject to the provisions of Rules 69 and 71, it shall be the duty of 
a senator to vote upon all questions decided by a yea and nay vote or a division 
of the Senate. 
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
5 
 
IV 
OF OFFICERS 
15.  The President, among other duties shall preserve order, and in 
case of disorder may clear the galleries. All questions of order shall be decided 
by the President, whose decision shall be final, unless a senator immediately 
appeals, and such appeal is sustained by a majority vote of the senators present. 
16.  The President may designate any senator to perform the duties of 
the President, but such designation shall not continue beyond the adjournment 
for the day. 
17.  The President pro tempore shall perform all the duties of the 
President during the latter's absence. 
18.  The Secretary shall be the reading clerk of the Senate; and shall 
administer the oath of office to such persons as the President may direct.  Unless 
required by the Senate, the daily reading and approval of the journal of the  
previous day by the Secretary shall be dispensed with. 
19.  The Secretary shall prepare the journal which shall record the 
proceedings of the Senate (except when acting as a committee of the whole), 
embracing the titles of bills, proposed amendments, the names of the senators 
and the votes which they give on every question decided by yeas and nays, and 
such other matters as may be pertinent. 
20.  The Secretary shall transmit to the House all messages, which shall 
be in writing, and either delivered to the Clerk or read by the Secretary in the 
presence of the House in session. 
21.  The Secretary shall cause to be prepared, from time to time, a 
statement showing the status of each bill and the work of the session. 
22.  The Secretary shall serve until a successor is elected and has 
qualified. 
23.  The Assistant Secretary shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of 
the duties of the office and may, under the direction of the Secretary or in the 
Secretary's absence, perform any of the duties of the Secretary. 
V 
OF COMMITTEES 
24.  At the beginning of each biennial session the following standing 
committees shall be appointed: 
A committee on Agriculture, of five members, as determined by the 
Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall be referred matters 
relating to agriculture. 


--- Page 8 ---
6 
A committee on Appropriations, of seven members, to whom shall be 
referred bills and joint resolutions appropriating money from the state treasury. 
A committee on Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs, 
of five members, to whom shall be referred matters relating to economic 
development, commerce, and community development, including tourism and 
marketing, promotion of the arts, and film activities; matters relating to labor; 
matters relating to housing; matters relating to liquor and tobacco control; 
matters relating to lotteries; and all matters relating to subjects for which there 
is no other appropriate committee. 
A committee on Education, of five or six members, as determined by the 
Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall be referred matters 
relating to education, libraries, and literary or scientific subjects. 
A committee on Finance, of seven members, to whom shall be referred 
matters affecting the revenues of the state or its instrumentalities, and matters 
relating to banks, trust companies, insurance, utility companies and to private 
and quasi-public corporations, including other companies subject to regulation 
by the Public Service Board. 
A committee on Government Operations, of five or six members, as 
determined by the Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall 
be referred matters relating to the administration of government and justice; 
compensation of and retirement benefits for public officials and employees; 
suffrage; nominations and elections; municipal corporations; military affairs, 
including veterans and civil defense; public records and open meetings; and 
reapportionment. 
A committee on Health and Welfare, of five or six members, as 
determined by the Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall 
be referred matters relating to the preservation of health, old age assistance, 
and social and economic security. 
A committee on Institutions, of five or six members, as determined by 
the Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall be referred 
matters relating to public buildings; information technology generally along 
with the acquisition, operations, and management of information technology (in 
state government and in the General Assembly); lands in which the state has an 
interest, and the Department of Corrections. 
A committee on Judiciary, of five members, to whom shall be referred 
matters relating to judicial and legal affairs; and motor vehicle and homeowner 
liability insurance. 
A committee on Natural Resources and Energy, of five members, to 
whom shall be referred matters relating to the conservation, development and 
planning of the state's natural resources, including water quality, geology, 
forestry, parks and recreation and fish and wildlife; community and regional 


--- Page 9 ---
7 
planning and development; and the conservation and planning of sources of 
energy. 
A committee on Transportation, of five members, as determined by the 
Committee on Committees for each biennium, to whom shall be referred matters 
relating to transportation facilities, including, principally, highways and 
bridges, and the regulation of traffic thereon and the licensing of the users 
thereof; and matters relating to aviation and railroads. 
A committee on Rules, of five members, consisting of the President pro 
tempore, who shall be chair ex officio, and four other members, who shall 
propose, and to whom shall be referred matters relating to the rules and 
operation of the Senate. 
25.  The member first named on each committee shall be the chair 
thereof, and the member secondly named shall be vice-chair. In the event of the 
death or resignation of such chair or vice-chair, the member next in order named 
shall become chair, or vice-chair, unless and until the Committee on Committees 
designates new chairs at the regular or any special session. Each committee, at 
its first meeting, shall choose a clerk from its members. 
26.  The chair of each committee shall schedule such meetings of the 
committee as may be necessary for the prompt dispatch of the business before 
the committee. 
Such meetings shall be announced on the floor of the Senate, and when 
practicable, a notice thereof posted on the bulletin board. 
27.  No committee shall sit during any session of the Senate without 
leave from the Senate. 
28.  The introducer of a bill and all persons who shall so request of the 
committee shall be given an opportunity to be heard upon a measure referred to 
a committee, and shall be warned of the time and place of hearing, either by 
personal notice, notice in the calendar, or oral notice from the floor of the 
Senate. 
29.  The clerk of each committee shall keep a record of the attendance 
of members at committee hearings and shall keep a record with reference to 
each bill considered, as follows: the persons making requests to be heard; the 
notice, if any, that is given; the dates when the bill is considered; and the vote 
of each member of the committee thereon.  The record shall be open to the 
inspection of the public at proper times and places, and at the close of the session 
shall be delivered to the Secretary of State. 
30.  Each committee to which a bill shall be referred, committed or 
recommitted shall report the same to the Senate within fifteen days after such 
reference unless otherwise ordered by the Senate. The Secretary shall print in 


--- Page 10 ---
8 
the calendar a list of all bills which shall have been in the hands of committees 
for more than such fifteen days, without special order. 
31.  When a committee, other than the Committee on Appropriations, 
shall introduce or report any bill which carries an appropriation or which 
requires expenditure of funds, and the committee shall recommend in its report 
that the bill ought to pass, or ought to pass in concurrence, or ought to pass 
when amended, or ought to pass in concurrence with proposals of amendment, 
and the bill has been placed on the calendar for notice, then the President shall 
refer the bill to the Committee on Appropriations, which committee shall 
consider the bill and report on the advisability of the appropriation carried or 
expenditures required by the bill. The Committee on Appropriations may 
recommend or propose an amendment or amendments affecting only the 
appropriation or expenditure in the bill. If the committee first considering any 
bill which carries an appropriation or expenditure shall report the bill adversely 
and the report is negatived by the Senate, the bill shall be referred by the 
President to the Committee on Appropriations before it is advanced to third 
reading, which committee shall consider the bill and make its report as above 
stated. 
When a committee, other than the Committee on Finance, shall report any 
bill affecting the revenue of the state, and the committee shall recommend in its 
report that the bill ought to pass, or ought to pass in concurrence, or ought to 
pass when amended, or ought to pass in concurrence with proposals of 
amendment, and the bill has been placed on the calendar for notice, then the 
President shall refer the bill to the Committee on Finance, which committee 
shall consider the bill and shall make such report as it deems advisable. If the 
committee first considering any bill which affects the revenue of the state shall 
report the bill adversely and the report is negatived by the Senate, the bill shall 
be referred by the President to the Committee on Finance before it is advanced 
to third reading, which committee shall consider the bill and make its report as 
above stated. 
When the reports of the two committees on the same bill are placed on the 
calendar for action at the same time, the question shall be on the report of the 
committee which first considered the bill; however, if amendments are 
recommended or proposed by either or both committees, these amendments shall 
first be disposed of and amendments recommended or proposed by the 
committee which first considered the bill shall be acted on first. 
32.  A committee report may be signed by any member on behalf of the 
committee, and shall be delivered by the reporter promptly to the Secretary of 
the Senate. The signer of each report shall be held responsible for the accuracy 
of its statements and the propriety of its language, and, when the same shall be 
under consideration, the reporter shall be further liable to give additional 
statements of facts or other explanations in answer to the call of any senator. 


--- Page 11 ---
9 
32A.  In the event the Governor issues a Declaration of Emergency, 
during the Declaration of Emergency: 
 
(a) The Rules Committee is vested with the authority to permit 
Senate committees (including itself) to meet and vote electronically as the Rules 
Committee determines appropriate. If necessary, the Rules Committee may make 
this authorization remotely in conformance with this Rule. 
 
(b) In exercising its authority under section (a), the Rules 
Committee, to the extent applicable and practicable, shall include the provisions 
of Rule 9A in its authorizations. 
 
(c) The authority of the Rules Committee under this Rule 32A 
terminates upon the expiration of the Declared Emergency. 
VI 
OF THE CALENDAR 
33.  The Secretary shall prepare and cause to be printed a daily 
calendar of business. It shall contain the "Orders of the Day" including the titles 
of all bills which, on the preceding day, shall have been ordered to a third 
reading or placed on the calendar for notice prior to a second reading; the titles 
of all bills reported by committees with proposed amendments, if any, for notice 
for one legislative day before the bills are read the second time; and other 
matters in order for consideration. It shall also contain a specification of matters 
ordered to lie, pertinent memoranda, announcements and the like. 
34.  No bill may be read the second or third time or passed or rejected, 
nor may action be taken on any House proposals of amendments or reports of 
committees of conference, nor may any rule be amended or suspended for more 
than one sitting, unless such action has been on the calendar for notice, 
including proposed amendments, if any, for one legislative day, and appears in 
the Orders of the Day. 
35.  The first hour of each sitting may be devoted to the reception and 
disposal of petitions, memorials and remonstrances, motions, resolutions and 
reports of special committees; after which, bills may be introduced and bills 
from the House referred. 
36.  The Orders of the Day shall then be taken up. At the request of the 
President pro tempore, unless a majority of the Senate objects, bills or 
resolutions may be taken up out of their normal sequence.  Otherwise, unfinished 
orders of the preceding day shall be disposed of first. It shall not be in order to 
interrupt the Orders of the Day with any other business, except a motion to 
adjourn, or that when the Senate adjourn it be to a time certain, or to recess, or 
to suspend the rules, and to receive messages from the Governor or from the 
House. 


--- Page 12 ---
10 
37.  After entering upon the consideration of the Orders of the Day, the 
Senate may, by order or at the discretion of the President, proceed with them in 
regular course as follows: Matters not giving rise to a motion or debate shall 
first be disposed of in the order in which they stand in the calendar; after which 
the matters that were passed over shall be considered in like order and disposed 
of by the Senate. 
38.  Whenever a bill or joint resolution or Senate resolution is laid on 
the table by order of the Senate, it may at any time be called up by a senator. 
When so called up, the bill or such resolution shall be placed on the action 
calendar for the next legislative day. 
VII 
OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
39.  During the regular session held in the first year of the biennium 
bills may be introduced by a senator or a standing committee at any time. 
During any adjourned session of the biennium (excluding the 
customary weekend adjournments), no bill may be introduced by a senator 
unless it has previously been filed with the Legislative Council on or before the 
first weekday of December preceding the opening of the session, approved as to 
contents by the sponsor no less than twenty-five calendar days preceding the 
opening of the session and approved for printing with any cosponsors on or 
before the second Friday after the commencement of the adjourned session or 
unless it is introduced by or with the consent of the Rules Committee.  During 
any adjourned session, a standing committee may introduce a bill on or before 
January 31 or with the consent of the Rules Committee. 
40.  Bills amending existing law, whenever practicable, shall be so 
prepared as to show the new matter proposed, old matter retained, and old 
matter to be omitted, and shall have the title, a statement of purpose approved 
by the sponsor, and the name of the introducer printed at the beginning. The 
subject matter of a bill shall be briefly indicated in the title. After final action 
has been taken on a bill or resolution any necessary amendments to the title of 
the bill or resolution shall be made and noted on the backings thereof by the 
Secretary. 
41.  Each bill intended for presentation by any member of the Senate 
shall be presented first to the Legislative Council. The Legislative Council shall 
examine and revise it as to form and expression, so far as may be required. After 
certifying to the revision and after approval by the sponsor the Legislative 
Council shall forward the bills to the printer designated by the Purchasing 
Director. 
42.  The Secretary shall prescribe the form for bills and shall cause a 
sufficient number of the bills to be printed with suitable margins and spaces. 
With respect to Senate bills and resolutions, amendments to Senate bills and 


--- Page 13 ---
11 
resolutions, Senate proposals of amendments to House bills and resolutions, 
proposals of amendments to the Vermont Constitution, and reports of 
Committees of Conference, the Secretary may: 
(1) renumber and rearrange sections or parts of sections; 
(2) transfer sections or divide sections so as to give separate section 
numbers to distinct subject matters, but without changing the meaning; 
(3) insert or change the wording of headnotes; 
(4) change reference numbers to agree with renumbered chapters 
or sections; 
(5) substitute the proper section or chapter number for the terms 
"this act," "the preceding section" and similar terms; 
(6) strike out figures where they are merely a repetition of written 
words and vice versa; 
(7) change capitalizations for grammatical purposes; 
(8) correct manifest typographical and grammatical errors; and 
(9) make any other purely formal or clerical changes in keeping with 
the purposes of the legislation.  
43.  No bill shall be passed unless it has three readings, which shall be 
by title only. However, upon order of the Senate or at the direction of the 
President, the second or third readings shall be in full. 
44.  The Secretary shall submit the original bill to the President for 
examination, after which it shall be read the first time and referred to an 
appropriate committee by the President. 
45.  If the committee to which a bill is referred reports that the same 
ought not to pass, it shall be read the second time. Thereupon the question shall 
be: "Shall the bill be rejected?" If the question upon rejection is negatived, the 
question shall be: "Shall the bill be read the third time?" 
46.  If the committee to which a bill was referred reports that the bill 
ought to pass, it shall be read the second time. Thereupon the question shall be: 
"Shall the bill be read the third time?" Pending this question the bill shall be 
open to amendment. 
47.  If the committee to which a bill was referred reports it favorably, 
recommending amendment, or with proposal to the House to amend, the bill 
shall thereupon be read as proposed to be amended if it is read in full. The 
question shall be first upon the amendments recommended by the committee; 
after which the procedure shall be the same as in case of bills reported without 
amendment. 


--- Page 14 ---
12 
48.  Bills originating in and reported by committees shall be read the 
first time and placed on the calendar for notice the succeeding day; unless 
referred pursuant to Rule 31, the second succeeding day they shall be placed on 
the calendar for second reading, after which they shall proceed in regular 
course as other bills. 
49.  A bill may be committed or recommitted at any stage and when so 
committed or recommitted it shall be, in substance, as last acted upon by the 
Senate, except that a proposal of amendment to the other House shall be 
disregarded. However, when reported by the committee, it shall proceed in the 
regular course as other bills. 
50.  A bill may be withdrawn at any stage by its introducers. To 
withdraw a bill in committee, the introducers shall request the Secretary to place 
the bill on the Notice Calendar by title in bold type indicating intention to 
withdraw. If no objections are made thereto, the bill shall be considered 
withdrawn. When a bill has been withdrawn the effect is the same as though it 
never had been introduced. 
51.  Joint resolutions shall be treated in the same manner as bills except 
that joint resolutions expressing the sentiments of the General Assembly, or 
relating to adjournment, or relating to joint assemblies, or relating to pay of the 
Lieutenant Governor and members of the Legislature and other incidental 
expenses of the General Assembly, may be adopted upon their first reading; 
provided, however, that in the discretion of the President any joint resolution 
may be treated as a bill. Joint resolutions not treated as bills shall be printed in 
the Journal and they may, in the discretion of the President, and shall, upon vote 
of the Senate, be placed on the Calendar for action on the next day after being 
offered. No joint resolution need be revised by the Legislative Council or printed 
in full except in the journal. To the extent applicable, a Senate resolution shall 
be so treated. 
52.  Joint resolutions of the two houses shall not be used for the purpose 
of general legislation, but shall be in order for the purpose of expressing the 
sentiments of the Legislature, for special appropriations incidental to the session 
and business of the Legislature, for agreeing upon adjournment, and for other 
inferior and incidental purposes of legislation. 
52A.  Concurrent resolutions of the two houses shall be in order only 
for the purposes of expressing sentiments of congratulations, commendations, 
condolences, or the like. 
VIII 
OF MOTIONS 
53.  Every motion shall be reduced to writing by the mover if required 
thereto by the President or a senator or the Secretary. 


--- Page 15 ---
13 
 
54.  When a question is pending no motion shall be received except 
To adjourn, 
To proceed to the consideration of executive business, 
To adjourn to a day certain, 
That when the Senate adjourn it shall be to a day certain, 
To take a recess, 
To lay on the table, 
To postpone indefinitely, 
To postpone to a day certain, 
To commit or recommit, 
To amend, 
To suspend a rule, 
To reconsider, 
which several motions shall have precedence as they stand arranged. 
55.  A call for the previous question shall not at any time be in order. 
56.  No motion shall be in order when the Senate is engaged in voting 
and until the vote is announced by the presiding officer.  No conversation or 
passing of notes shall be in order when the Senate is engaged in voting and until 
the vote is announced.  A Senator shall be seated in his or her seat when voting. 
IX 
OF AMENDMENTS 
57.  Amendments shall be in order from the floor at the second reading, 
after the amendments, if any, recommended by the committee are disposed of by 
the Senate, provided, however, that when a bill has been reported adversely by 
the committee, pending the question, "Shall the bill be rejected?" amendments 
from the floor shall be in order. 
No motion to amend after third reading shall be in order except by 
consent of the Senate given by majority vote. The request for leave shall be 
accompanied by a statement of the proposed amendment. The question upon the 
request shall be decided without debate. 
58.  It shall not be in order to amend a bill from the House, but the 
motion shall be that the Senate propose to the House to amend. 
59.  Every amendment, or proposal to the House to amend, shall be 
submitted in writing. 


--- Page 16 ---
14 
60.  The rejection of a motion to strike out and insert one proposition 
shall not preclude a motion to strike out and insert a different proposition, or a 
motion simply to strike out, nor shall the rejection of a motion simply to strike 
out prevent a subsequent motion to strike out and insert. 
61.  An amendment previously adopted may be amended, but not so as 
substantially to negative the amendment theretofore adopted; provided, that 
after the Senate shall have committed or recommitted a bill, it may be amended 
upon recommendation of the committee by negativing an amendment theretofore 
adopted. 
62.  Should the House propose to the Senate to amend a bill, it shall be 
placed on the calendar for notice. The succeeding day the amendment shall be 
placed on the action calendar for consideration. 
If the House proposes to the Senate to amend, the question shall be: 
"Shall the Senate concur in the House proposal of amendment?" But it shall be 
in order to move that the Senate concur in the House proposal of amendment 
with an amendment; or that the Senate refuse to concur and ask for a Committee 
of Conference. 
63.  If the House shall disagree to a Senate proposal of amendment the 
following motions shall be in order and shall be privileged in the order named: 
First, That the Senate recede; Second, That the Senate insist and ask for a 
committee of conference; Third, That the Senate adhere. 
X 
OF DEBATE 
64.  Motions relating to adjournment, to take a recess, to proceed to 
the consideration of executive business, and to lay on the table, shall be decided 
without debate. A motion to suspend the rules shall be debatable. 
65.  No senator shall speak more than twice to the same question, 
without leave of the Senate, and senators who have once spoken shall not again 
be entitled to the floor (except for the purpose of explanation) to the exclusion 
of another who has not spoken. 
66.  In all cases, the senator first arising to address the Chair (subject 
to the restriction of Rule 65), shall be entitled to the floor, and when two or more 
arise at the same time, the President shall name the one who is to speak. 
67.  If the question in debate contains more than one point, the same 
shall be divided on demand of a senator, except that a motion to strike out and 
insert shall not be divided. 
 
 
 


--- Page 17 ---
15 
XI 
OF VOTING 
68.  The yeas and nays by roll call or division of the Senate shall be 
taken upon any question if demanded by a senator. 
69.  Every senator present shall vote when the yeas and nays are taken 
by roll call or upon a division of the Senate, unless excused by the Senate, but 
no senator shall be compelled to vote who was absent when the question was 
stated by the President. 
70.  A senator who appears in the Senate after the roll has been called, 
but before the result of the vote is announced, may request that the question be 
restated and shall have the right to vote on that question. 
71.  No senator shall be permitted to vote upon any question in which 
he or she is directly or immediately interested. 
72.  On all questions in the decision of which a simple majority is 
required when the Senate is equally divided, the Secretary shall take the casting 
vote of the President. 
XII 
OF RECONSIDERATION 
73.  No motion for reconsideration shall be in order unless made the 
next day of actual sitting of the Senate after that in which the vote was taken. 
74.  No senator, unless being one who voted with the prevailing side on 
the decision of a question, shall have the right to move a reconsideration thereof; 
provided that if the question shall have been decided by the casting vote of the 
President, a senator who voted with the prevailing side or one who did not vote, 
may move such reconsideration. 
75.  When a question has once been reconsidered the decision then 
arrived at shall not again be reconsidered. Nor when a motion to reconsider has 
been negatived shall the question again be considered or a like motion again be 
in order. 
XIII 
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS 
76.  A standing committee of the Senate or any member of the Senate 
may propose an amendment to the Constitution during any regular session when 
permitted by the Constitution. The proposal shall be printed in accordance with 
the provisions of Rule 42, introduced into the Senate, read the first time, and by 
the President referred to an appropriate committee of the Senate. The committee 
of reference shall report to the Senate its recommendations concerning the 
proposal. If the committee to which a proposal of amendment was referred 


--- Page 18 ---
16 
reports it favorably, recommending amendments, the question shall be first upon 
the amendments. 
77.  On being reported by the committee, whether favorably or 
unfavorably, or without recommendation, the proposal shall thereupon be 
printed in full in the calendar, including any amendments thereto recommended 
by the committee. On the fifth legislative day following the appearance of such 
proposals of amendment in the calendar, the proposal shall be read the second 
time in full. Thereupon the question shall be: "Shall the Senate adopt the 
proposal of amendment to the Constitution of Vermont as recommended by the 
Committee on                    and request the concurrence of the House?" Upon 
any proposal of amendment to the Constitution or of amendment to such 
proposal, the yeas and nays shall be taken. Pending this question the proposal 
shall be open to amendment. 
78.  Amendments to any proposal of amendment to the Constitution 
may be recommended by the committee of reference by majority vote of such 
committee. Amendments recommended by any senator before second reading 
shall be submitted to the committee of reference, in written form, where they 
shall be acted upon by the committee. Any amendment may be adopted or 
rejected, in whole or in part, by majority vote of such committee. Upon adoption 
or rejection of any amendment by the committee, the same shall be printed in 
the calendar at least one legislative day before second reading. 
79.  These rules may be suspended only upon the affirmative vote of 
three-fourths of the members of the Senate. Upon completion of the vote upon 
any amendments to the proposal, the question shall be: "Shall the Senate adopt 
the                       proposal of amendment to the Constitution of Vermont (as 
amended) as recommended by the Committee on                      , and request the 
concurrence of the House?" 
80.  The yeas and nays by roll call shall be taken upon the proposal of 
amendment which shall require a two-thirds vote of the Senate for adoption, and 
also upon any proposal of amendment thereto which shall require a majority 
vote for its adoption. 
81.  Such hearings may be held upon a proposal of amendment as are 
deemed necessary by the committee of reference. 
82.  In the event that the Senate requests the House to return any 
proposal of amendment to the Constitution without having acted thereon, the 
proposal shall be recommitted to the committee which last acted upon such 
proposal, whereupon it shall be in order to further amend such proposal in 
compliance with these rules. Upon report to the Senate by the committee of 
reference, the question shall first be upon any recommendation of amendment 
and then as stated in Rule 79. 


--- Page 19 ---
17 
83.  During the first year of the next biennial session following the 
initial adoption of any proposal of amendment, each proposal of amendment to 
the Constitution shall be printed in the calendar upon direction given by the 
Committee on Rules. Upon the 7th legislative day following the printing thereof, 
each proposal shall be read the third time and acted upon separately. 
Amendments to such proposals shall not be in order. The question shall be: 
"Shall the Senate concur in proposal . . . . . . . . . . (or the proposal), and request 
the concurrence of the House?" The concurrence of the Senate shall be upon the 
affirmative vote of a majority of the members thereof, and the yeas and nays by 
roll call shall be taken. 
84.  Upon concurrence of the House in the same proposals of 
amendment, or any of them, the Committee on Judiciary shall forthwith offer a 
joint resolution setting forth the time and manner in which such proposals of 
amendment so concurred in shall be submitted to a direct vote of the freemen of 
the state. 
85.  All other rules of the Senate shall be applied to proposals of 
amendment to the Constitution unless inconsistent herewith. 
XIV 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
86.  When the reading of a paper is called for, and the same is objected 
to by a senator, the question shall be determined by a vote of the Senate. 
87.  All petitions shall be referred to a committee without reading, 
unless the reading be ordered by the Senate. 
88.  On motion of a senator the Senate may go into a Committee of the 
Whole for the consideration of pending questions. The President shall appoint 
the chair. 
89.  The presiding officer may make temporary or permanent 
arrangements for the use or non-use of any portion of the Senate Chamber by 
members of the news media including the press, television and radio. The taking 
of pictures on the floor of the Senate Chamber during a session thereof and/or 
machine recording of the proceedings are prohibited except by permission of 
the presiding officer had and obtained; and all apparatus and paraphernalia 
used in connection therein must be placed where the same will be used, before 
the opening of the session involved. 
90.  The Senate having taken the final vote upon any question the same 
shall not again be in order during the same session or any adjourned session 
thereof in any form whatever except by way of reconsideration. 
91.  Where a question of parliamentary procedure arises not covered 
by these Senate Rules, Mason's Manual of Legislative Procedure shall prevail, 


--- Page 20 ---
18 
except Mason's Rule No. 780, as that rule is contrary to Senate procedures and 
customs. 
XV 
OF EXECUTIVE SESSIONS 
92.  A motion that the Senate go into executive session shall require a 
two-thirds vote of the members of the Senate present and voting in open session, 
shall indicate the matters to be considered in executive session, and shall take 
precedence over all motions except the motion to adjourn. 
93.  A communication from the Governor dealing with a nomination 
requiring the advice and consent of the Senate shall be read and referred to the 
appropriate committee. The committee after full investigation shall make its 
report to the Senate for action thereon. A motion for an executive session shall 
be in order for the consideration of and action on the committee report. All 
action in executive session hereunder shall be by roll call vote and the vote of 
each Senator shall be announced in open session and journalized. 
94.  Other matters which the Senate may consider in executive session 
shall only consist of the following: 
a.  Contracts, civil actions at law, prosecutions by the state, or like 
manner of inquiry, where premature general public knowledge would clearly 
place the state, municipality, other public agency, or person at a substantial 
disadvantage. 
b.  Matters constituting a clear and imminent peril to the public 
safety. 
95.  The Journal of an executive session shall not be published until the 
questions therein considered are finally determined. Any motions made but 
withdrawn prior to voting shall also be journalized. 
96.  Committees of the Senate may go into executive session, upon 
two-thirds vote of members of the committee present and voting in open session, 
for the consideration of appointment reports and the other matters specified in 
Rule 94. Action in executive session shall be by roll call vote and, for 
appointments, shall be recorded by the clerk of the committee for publication in 
open session. 
XVI 
OF SUSPENSION OF RULES 
97.  No rule of the Senate shall be suspended except by vote of 
three-fourths of the members present. 
 
 
 


--- Page 21 ---
19 
XVII 
OF AMENDMENTS 
98.  Any amendment to the Senate Rules shall require a vote of a 
majority of the members present. 
XVIII 
OF JOINT RULES OF THE SENATE AND 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
99.  Joint rules for both the House and Senate may be adopted by a 
majority vote of the membership of each house. 
100.  Joint rules adopted by the regular session of any legislature shall 
be in full force during both the regular session and any adjourned session of the 
same legislature, unless amended, modified or repealed as therein provided. 
XIX 
OF CONDUCT OF MEMBERS AND OFFICERS 
101.  Sexual Harassment 
(a)  A member and officer of the Senate shall be responsible for 
ensuring that each legislative employee and colleague enjoys a workplace free 
from discrimination by conducting himself or herself in a manner that promotes 
public confidence in the integrity of the Senate. 
(b)  Violation of this rule will result in appropriate disciplinary 
action enforced by the full Senate, if necessary. 
(c)  Retaliation against a person who complains, reports or 
cooperates in an investigation of sexual harassment is prohibited. 
(d)  The Rules Committee shall develop and adopt a policy and 
procedure for receiving and reviewing allegations of discrimination involving 
the conduct of members or officers of the Senate. 
(e)  The Secretary of the Senate shall develop procedures for 
employees of the Senate office. 
(f)  The Committee on Committees shall, at the beginning of the 
biennium, or as soon as possible thereafter, establish a Sexual Harassment 
Panel with the authority to receive, investigate and resolve complaints of sexual 
harassment, retaliation and noncompliance made against members or officers 
of the Senate.  The panel shall be comprised of six members of the Senate, 
including at least one representative from each major political party. 
(g)  The President pro tempore shall ensure that training is made 
available to all Senate members and employees and that they receive copies of 
the policy and procedures which implement this rule. 
102.  Ethics 


--- Page 22 ---
20 
(a)  The Committee on Committees shall, at the beginning of the biennium 
or as soon as possible thereafter, establish an Ethics Panel to receive and 
investigate allegations of ethical violations of senators and allegations of 
discrimination by senators, except for those complaints covered under Rule 101, 
and to recommend to the Senate any disciplinary action against a senator for an 
ethical or discriminatory violation, if the Panel deems it necessary.  
(b)  The Panel shall be comprised of five members of the Senate including 
at least one Senator from each major political party.  The Panel shall elect a 
chair.  All records and documents of the Ethics Panel shall be maintained in the 
Senate Secretary’s Office. 
(c)  The Rules Committee shall develop and adopt a policy and procedure 
for receiving and reviewing allegations of ethical violations of Senators and 
procedures for when information and documents are confidential and public. 
Revisions to the policy and procedure may be proposed by the Panel to the Rules 
Committee, which shall consider the proposal and report the proposal to the full 
Senate with recommendation for the Senate’s consideration. 
(d)  At the end of each biennium, the Ethics Panel shall report to the Senate 
the number of complaints filed and the disposition of those complaints. 
103.  Disclosure 
On or before the 10th day of the beginning of the biennium, each senator 
shall submit to the Secretary a disclosure form.  The form shall be signed by the 
senator and be publicly available. A senator shall update the senator’s 
disclosure form as circumstances require.  The initial form shall be developed 
by the Secretary.  Changes to the form shall be proposed by the Panel to the 
Rules Committee, which shall consider the proposal and report the proposal to 
the full Senate with recommendation.    
104.  State House Interns/Employees/Assistants 
All State House interns, aides, employees and/or assistants of a Senator, 
whether paid or unpaid, shall complete and file with the Sergeant at Arms a form 
prepared by the Secretary disclosing their name, contact information and other 
pertinent information.  Each Senator shall ensure compliance of their State 
House interns, aides, employees and/or assistants with this rule. 
 
Attested to: 
/s/John H. Bloomer, Jr. 
JOHN H. BLOOMER, JR. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretary of the Senate 
 


--- Page 23 ---
 
 
 


--- Page 24 ---
