STATE: Vermont
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/Documents/2026/Docs/CALENDAR/hc260528.pdf?20260527080005
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/33/019/01999

--- Page 1 ---
House Calendar
Thursday, May 28, 2026
143rd DAY OF THE ADJOURNED SESSION
House Convenes at 9:30 A.M.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ACTION CALENDAR
Unfinished Business of Tuesday, May 26, 2026
Senate Proposal of Amendment
H. 931 Miscellaneous changes in education law
Senate Proposal of Amendment .......................................................... 3914
New Business
Action Under Rule 52
J.R.H. 12 Authorizing remote joint committee voting through the remainder
of calendar year 2026 and the application of the ADA thereto ................. 3929
NOTICE CALENDAR
Favorable
S. 64 Amendments to the scope of practice for optometrists
Rep. Soucy for Health Care ................................................................ 3929
Rep. Birong for Government Operations and Military Affairs .............3930
Rep. Waszazak for Ways and Means ................................................... 3930
Rep. Mrowicki for Appropriations ......................................................3930
Senate Proposal of Amendment
H. 935 Emergency management
Senate Proposal of Amendment .......................................................... 3930
H. 942 Miscellaneous agricultural subjects
Senate Proposal of Amendment .......................................................... 3947
Committee of Conference Report
H. 952 Capital construction and State bonding budget adjustment
Committee of Conference Report ........................................................3951


--- Page 2 ---
- 3914 -
ORDERS OF THE DAY
ACTION CALENDAR
Unfinished Business of Tuesday, May 26, 2026
Senate Proposal of Amendment
H. 931
An act relating to miscellaneous changes in education law
The Senate proposes to the House to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Approved Independent School Moratorium * * *
Sec. 1. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78, Sec. E.511.1, as amended by 2025
Acts and Resolves No. 72, Sec. 16, is amended to read:
Sec. E.511.1 MORATORIUM ON APPROVAL OF NEW APPROVED
INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS
(a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the State Board
of Education shall be prohibited from approving an application for initial
approval of an approved independent school until further direction by the
General Assembly.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a change in either tax
status or conversion to a nonprofit organization by a therapeutic approved
independent school, absent any other changes, shall not affect the approval
status of the school.
(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the moratorium
on approval of new approved independent schools shall not apply to changes
in ownership of therapeutic approved independent schools as that term is
defined in 16 V.S.A. § 828(d).
If submission of an application for initial
approval of an approved independent school is required as the result of a
change in ownership of a therapeutic approved independent school that at the
time of the change in ownership is approved by the State Board of Education
pursuant to 16 V.S.A. § 166, and the school will remain a therapeutic approved
independent school after the change in ownership is complete, the moratorium
created pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall not apply and the
Agency of Education and State Board of Education shall process the
application according to applicable State and federal law.
* * * Interstate Compact for Education * * *
Sec. 2. 16 V.S.A. chapter 35 is added to read:


--- Page 3 ---
- 3915 -
CHAPTER 35. INTERSTATE COMPACT FOR EDUCATION
§ 1501. PURPOSE AND POLICY—ARTICLE I
(a) It is the purpose of this compact to:
(1) establish and maintain close cooperation and understanding among
executive, legislative, professional educational, and lay leadership on a
nationwide basis at the state and local levels;
(2) provide a forum for the discussion, development, crystallization, and
recommendation of public policy alternatives in the field of education;
(3)
provide a clearinghouse of information on matters relating to
education problems and how they are being met in different places throughout
the nation, so that the executive and legislative branches of state government
and of local communities may have ready access to the experience and record
of the entire country, and so that both lay and professional groups in the field
of education may have additional avenues for the sharing of experience and the
interchange of ideas in the formation of public policy in education;
(4) facilitate the improvement of state and local education systems so
that all of them will be able to meet adequate and desirable goals in a society
that requires continuous qualitative and quantitative advance in educational
opportunities, methods, and facilities.
(b) It is the policy of this compact to encourage and promote local and state
initiative in the development, maintenance, improvement, and administration
of education systems and institutions in a manner that will accord with the
needs and advantages of diversity among localities and states.
(c)
The party states recognize that each of them has an interest in the
quality and quantity of education furnished in each of the other states, as well
as in the excellence of its own education systems and institutions, because of
the highly mobile character of individuals within the nation, and because the
products and services contributing to the health, welfare, and economic
advancement of each state are supplied in significant part by persons educated
in other states.
§ 1502. STATE DEFINED—ARTICLE II
As used in this compact, “state” means a state, territory, or possession of the
United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
§ 1503. THE COMMISSION—ARTICLE III
(a)
The Education Commission of the States, hereinafter called “the
Commission,” is hereby established. The Commission shall consist of seven


--- Page 4 ---
- 3916 -
members representing each party state.
One of such members shall be the
governor; two shall be members of the state legislature selected by its
respective houses and serving in such manner as the legislature may determine;
and four shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the governor, unless
the laws of the state otherwise provide.
If the laws of a state prevent
legislators from serving on the Commission, six members shall be appointed
and serve at the pleasure of the governor, unless the laws of the state otherwise
provide. In addition to any other principles or requirements which a state may
establish for the appointment and service of its members of the Commission,
the guiding principle for the composition of the membership on the
Commission from each party state shall be that the members representing such
state shall, by virtue of their training, experience, knowledge, or affiliations, be
in a position collectively to reflect broadly the interests of the state
government, higher education, the state education system, local education, and
lay and professional, public and nonpublic educational leadership.
Of those
appointees, one shall be the head of a state agency or institution, designated by
the governor, having responsibility for one or more programs of public
education.
In addition to the members of the Commission representing the
party states, there may be not to exceed 10 nonvoting commissioners selected
by the Steering Committee for terms of one year. Such commissioners shall
represent leading national organizations of professional educators or persons
concerned with educational administration.
(b) The members of the Commission shall be entitled to one vote each on
the Commission. No action of the Commission shall be binding unless taken
at a meeting at which a majority of the total number of votes on the
Commission are cast in favor thereof. Action of the Commission shall be only
at a meeting at which a majority of the commissioners are present.
The
Commission shall meet at least once a year. In its bylaws, and subject to such
directions and limitations as may be contained therein, the Commission may
delegate the exercise of any of its powers to the Steering Committee or the
Executive Director, except for the power to approve budgets or requests for
appropriations, the power to make policy recommendations pursuant to section
1504 of this chapter, and adoption of the annual report pursuant to subsection
(j) of this section.
(c) The Commission shall have a seal.
(d)
The Commission shall elect annually, from among its members, a
chairman, who shall be a governor; a vice chairman; and a treasurer.
The
Commission shall provide for the appointment of an Executive Director. Such
Executive Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission, and together
with the Treasurer and such other personnel as the Commission may deem


--- Page 5 ---
- 3917 -
appropriate shall be bonded in such amount as the Commission shall
determine. The Executive Director shall be Secretary.
(e) Irrespective of the civil service, personnel, or other merit system laws
of any of the party states, the Executive Director, subject to the approval of the
Steering Committee, shall appoint, remove, or discharge such personnel as
may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Commission and
shall fix the duties and compensation of such personnel. The Commission in
its bylaws shall provide for the personnel policies and programs of the
Commission.
(f)
The Commission may borrow, accept, or contract for the services of
personnel from any party jurisdiction, the United States or any subdivision or
agency of the aforementioned governments, or from any agency of two or
more of the party jurisdictions or their subdivisions.
(g)
The Commission may accept for any of its purposes and functions
under this compact any and all donations and grants of money, equipment,
supplies, materials, and services, conditional or otherwise, from any state, the
United States, or any other governmental agency, or from any person, firm,
association, foundation or corporation, and may receive, utilize, and dispose of
the same. Any donation or grant accepted by the Commission pursuant to this
subsection or services borrowed pursuant to subsection (f) of this section shall
be reported in the annual report of the Commission. Such report shall include
the nature, amount, and conditions, if any, of the donation, grant, or services
borrowed, and the identity of the donor or lender.
(h) The Commission may establish and maintain such facilities as may be
necessary for the transacting of its business. The Commission may acquire,
hold, and convey real and personal property and any interest therein.
(i) The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its business and
shall have the power to amend and rescind these bylaws.
The Commission
shall publish its bylaws in convenient form and shall file a copy thereof and a
copy of any amendment thereto with the appropriate agency or officer in each
of the party states.
(j) The Commission annually shall make to the governor and legislature of
each party state a report covering the activities of the Commission for the
preceding year. The Commission may make such additional reports as it may
deem desirable.
§ 1504. POWERS—ARTICLE IV
In addition to authority conferred on the Commission by other provisions of
the Compact, the Commission shall have authority to:


--- Page 6 ---
- 3918 -
(1)
collect, correlate, analyze, and interpret information and data
concerning educational needs and resources;
(2) encourage and foster research in all aspects of education, but with
special
reference
to
the
desirable
scope
of
instruction,
organization,
administration, and instructional methods and standards employed or suitable
for employment in public education systems;
(3) develop proposals for adequate financing of education as a whole
and at each of its many levels;
(4)
conduct or participate in research of the types referred to in this
section in any instance where the Commission finds that such research is
necessary for the advancement of the purposes and policies of this compact,
using
fully
the
resources
of
national
associations,
regional
compact
organizations for higher education, and other agencies and institutions, both
public and private;
(5)
formulate suggested policies and plans for the improvement of
public education as a whole, or for any segment thereof, and make
recommendations
with
respect
thereto
available
to
the
appropriate
governmental units, agencies, and public officials;
(6)
do such other things as may be necessary or incidental to the
administration of any of its authority or functions pursuant to this compact.
§ 1505. COOPERATION WITH FEDERAL GOVERNMENT—ARTICLE V
(a)
If the laws of the United States specifically so provide, or if
administrative provision is made therefore within the federal government, the
United States may be represented on the Commission by not to exceed 10
representatives.
Any such representative or representatives of the United
States shall be appointed and serve in such manner as may be provided by or
pursuant to federal law, and may be drawn from any one or more branches of
the federal government, but no such representative shall have a vote on the
Commission.
(b) The Commission may provide information and make recommendations
to any executive or legislative agency or officer of the federal government
concerning the common education policies of the states, and may advise with
any such agencies or officers concerning any matter of mutual interest.
§ 1506. COMMITTEES—ARTICLE VI
(a)
To assist in the expeditious conduct of its business when the full
Commission is not meeting, the Commission shall elect a Steering Committee
of 32 members which, subject to the provisions of this compact and consistent


--- Page 7 ---
- 3919 -
with the policies of the Commission, shall be constituted and function as
provided in the bylaws of the Commission.
One-fourth of the voting
membership of the Steering Committee shall consist of governors, one-fourth
shall consist of legislators, and the remainder shall consist of other members of
the Commission. A federal representative on the Commission may serve with
the Steering Committee, but without vote.
The voting members of the
Steering Committee shall serve for terms of two years, except that members
elected to the first Steering Committee of the Commission shall be elected as
follows: 16 for one year and 16 for two years. The Chairman, Vice Chairman,
and Treasurer of the Commission shall be members of the Steering Committee
and, anything in this subsection to the contrary notwithstanding, shall serve
during their continuance in these offices. Vacancies in the Steering Committee
shall not affect its authority to act, but the Commission at its next regularly
ensuing meeting following the occurrence of any vacancy shall fill it for the
unexpired term. No person shall serve more than two terms as a member of
the Steering Committee, provided that service for a partial term of one year or
less shall not be counted toward the two-term limitation.
(b)
The Commission may establish advisory and technical committees
composed of state, local and federal officials, and private persons to advise it
with respect to any one or more of its functions. Any advisory or technical
committee may, on request of the states concerned, be established to consider
any matter of special concern to two or more of the party states.
(c)
The Commission may establish such additional committees as its
bylaws may provide.
§ 1507. FINANCE—ARTICLE VII
(a)
The Commission shall advise the governor or designated officer or
officers of each party state of its budget and estimated expenditures for such
period as may be required by the laws of that party state.
Each of the
Commission’s budgets of estimated expenditures shall contain specific
recommendations of the amount or amounts to be appropriated by each of the
party states.
(b) The total amount of appropriation requests under any budget shall be
apportioned among the party states.
In making such apportionment, the
Commission shall devise and employ a formula which takes equitable account
of the populations and per capita income levels of the party states.
(c) The Commission shall not pledge the credit of any party states. The
Commission may meet any of its obligations in whole or in part with funds
available to it pursuant to subsection 1503(g) of this chapter of this compact,
provided that the Commission takes specific action setting aside such funds


--- Page 8 ---
- 3920 -
prior to incurring an obligation to be met in whole or in part in such manner.
Except where the Commission makes funds available to it pursuant to
subsection 1503(g) of this chapter thereof, the Commission shall not incur any
obligation prior to the allotment of funds by the party states adequate to meet
the same.
(d)
The Commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements.
The receipts and disbursements of the Commission shall be
subject to the audit and accounting procedures established by its bylaws.
However, all receipts and disbursements of funds handled by the Commission
shall be audited yearly by a qualified public accountant, and the report of the
audit shall be included in and become part of the annual reports of the
Commission.
(e) The accounts of the Commission shall be open at any reasonable time
for inspection by duly constituted officers of the party states and by any
persons authorized by the Commission.
(f)
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent Commission
compliance with laws relating to audit or inspection of accounts by or on
behalf of any government contributing to the support of the Commission.
§ 1508. ELIGIBLE PARTIES; ENTRY INTO AND WITHDRAWAL—
ARTICLE VIII
(a)
This compact shall have as eligible parties all states, territories, and
possessions of the United States,
the District of Columbia, and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In respect of any such jurisdiction not having
a governor, the term “governor,” as used in this compact, shall mean the
closest equivalent official of such jurisdiction.
(b) Any state or other eligible jurisdiction may enter into this compact, and
it shall become binding thereon when it has adopted the same, provided that in
order to enter into initial effect, adoption by at least 10 eligible party
jurisdictions shall be required.
(c)
Adoption of the Compact may be either by enactment thereof or by
adherence thereto by the governor; provided that in the absence of enactment,
adherence by the governor shall be sufficient to make his state a party only
until December 31, 1967. During any period when a state is participating in
this compact through gubernatorial action, the governor shall appoint
those persons who, in addition to himself, shall serve as the members of the
Commission from his state, and shall provide to the Commission an equitable
share of the financial support of the Commission from any source available to
him.


--- Page 9 ---
- 3921 -
(d) Except for a withdrawal effective on December 31, 1967, in accordance
with subsection (c) of this section, any party state may withdraw from this
compact by enacting a statute repealing the same, but no such withdrawal shall
take effect until one year after the governor of the withdrawing state has given
notice in writing of the withdrawal to the governors of all other party states.
No withdrawal shall affect any liability already incurred by or chargeable to a
party state prior to the time of such withdrawal.
§ 1509. AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPACT—ARTICLE IX
This Compact may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members of
the Commission present and voting when ratified by the legislatures of two-
thirds of the party states.
§ 1510. CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY—ARTICLE X
This Compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes
thereof. The provisions of this compact shall be severable, and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary to the
constitution of any state or of the United States, or the application thereof to
any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid, the validity
of the remainder of this compact and the applicability thereof to any
government, agency, person, or circumstance shall not be affected thereby. If
this compact shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state participating
therein, the Compact shall remain in full force and effect as to the state
affected as to all severable matters.
* * * Background Checks * * *
Sec. 3. 16 V.S.A. § 254a is added to read:
§ 254a. AGENCY OF EDUCATION EMPLOYEES
(a) The Agency of Education shall request criminal record information for
a person the Secretary of Education is prepared to recommend for any full-
time, part-time, or temporary employment or contractual relationship with the
Agency if such person will have or has the potential to have unsupervised
contact with students (the applicant).
(b) After signing a user agreement, the Secretary shall make a request for
criminal records directly to the Vermont Crime Information Center.
(c)
A request made under subsection (b) of this section shall be
accompanied by a release signed by the applicant on a form provided by the
Vermont Crime Information Center and a set of the applicant’s fingerprints.
The Agency shall pay the fingerprinting fee required pursuant to 20 V.S.A.
§ 2062 and shall pay any fee required by the FBI associated with a fingerprint-


--- Page 10 ---
- 3922 -
supported criminal record check.
The release form to be signed by the
applicant shall include a statement informing the applicant of:
(1) the right to challenge the accuracy of the record by appealing to the
Vermont Crime Information Center pursuant to rules adopted by the
Commissioner of Public Safety; and
(2)
the Secretary of Education’s policy regarding maintenance and
destruction of records and the applicant’s right to request that the record or
notice be maintained for purposes of using it to comply with future criminal
record check requests made pursuant to section 256 of this title.
(d)
Upon completion of a criminal record check, the Vermont Crime
Information Center shall send to the Secretary a notice that no record exists or,
if a record exists, a copy of any criminal record. If a copy of a criminal record
is received, the Secretary shall forward it to the applicant and shall inform the
applicant in writing of:
(1) the right to challenge the accuracy of the record by appealing to the
Vermont Crime Information Center pursuant to rules adopted by the
Commissioner of Public Safety; and
(2)
the Secretary of Education’s policy regarding maintenance and
destruction of records and the applicant’s right to request that the record or
notice be maintained for purposes of using it to comply with future criminal
record check requests made pursuant to section 256 of this title.
(e)
The Secretary shall request and obtain information from the Child
Protection Registry maintained by the Department for Children and Families
and from the Vulnerable Adult Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation Registry
maintained by the Department of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living
(collectively, the Registries) for any applicant for whom a criminal record
check is required under subsection (a) of this section. The Departments for
Children and Families and of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living shall
adopt rules in accordance with 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 governing the process for
obtaining information
from
the
Registries and
for
disseminating
and
maintaining records of that information under this subsection.
(f)
An applicant convicted of a sex offense that requires registration
pursuant to 13 V.S.A. chapter 167, subchapter 3 shall not be eligible for
employment with the Agency.
Sec. 4. 16 V.S.A. § 256 is amended to read:
§ 256. CONTINUED VALIDITY OF CRIMINAL RECORD CHECK;
MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS


--- Page 11 ---
- 3923 -
(a)(1)
Anyone required to request a criminal record check under this
subchapter about a person who previously has undergone a check, regardless
of whether the check was for student teaching, licensure, or employment
purposes, shall comply with that requirement by acquiring the results of the
previous criminal record check unless:
(A) the person refuses to authorize release of the information;
(B) the record no longer exists;
(C) since the record check, there has been a period of one year or
more during which the person has not worked for a Vermont school district or,
a recognized or an approved independent school, or the Agency of Education;
or
(D) as otherwise required by this chapter.
(2)
Anyone required to request a criminal record check under this
subchapter about a person who has previously undergone a check may request
a name and date of birth or fingerprint-supported recheck of the criminal
record at any time during the course of the record subject’s employment in the
capacity for which the original check was required.
Rechecking criminal
records may be accomplished through a subscription service.
* * *
* * * Intercollegiate Sexual Harm Prevention Council * * *
Sec. 5. 16 V.S.A. § 183 is amended to read:
§ 183. INTERCOLLEGIATE SEXUAL HARM PREVENTION COUNCIL
(a) Creation. There is created the Intercollegiate Sexual Harm Prevention
Council to create a coordinated advance best practices for prevention of and
response to campus sexual harm across institutions of higher learning in
Vermont.
(b) Membership.
(1) The Council shall be composed of the following members:
(A)(1) a the Title IX coordinator and a campus-based sexual harm
prevention/education coordinator from an institution of higher learning,
appointed by the Chancellor of the Vermont State Colleges or designee from
each postsecondary school chartered in Vermont with a physical campus
located within Vermont;
(B)(2)
a Title IX coordinator and a campus-based sexual harm
prevention/education coordinator from an institution of higher learning,


--- Page 12 ---
- 3924 -
appointed by the President of the University of Vermont a peer educator or
advocate appointed by the Vice Provost for Student Affairs of the University
of Vermont;
(C)(3)
a Title IX coordinator and a campus-based sexual harm
prevention/education coordinator from an institution of higher learning,
appointed by the President of the Association of Vermont Independent
Colleges the Executive Director of the Network Against Domestic and Sexual
Violence or designee;
(D)(4)
two community-based sexual violence advocates, appointed
by the Network Against Domestic and Sexual Violence the Program
Coordinator of the Vermont Forensic Nursing Program or designee; and
(E)(5)
two law enforcement or public safety representatives with
experience responding to and investigating campus sexual violence, appointed
by the Commissioner of Public Safety; the Commissioner of Public Safety or
designee.
(F) three college students, at least one of whom has lived experience
as a sexual violence survivor and one who represents a campus-based racial
justice organization, appointed by the Center for Crime Victim Services;
(G) a person with expertise in sexual violence responses within the
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community, appointed by the
Center for Crime Victim Services;
(H)
a sexual assault nurse examiner, appointed by the Network
Against Domestic and Sexual Violence;
(I) a prosecutor with experience in prosecuting sexual violence cases
from either the Department of State’s Attorneys and Sheriffs or the Office of
the Attorney General, appointed by the Attorney General; and
(J) an attorney with experience in sexual violence cases, appointed by
the Defender General.
(2) To ensure a council that is reflective of Vermont’s college campuses,
appointing authorities shall consider diversity when making appointments to
the Council.
(c) Duties. The Council shall:
(1)
review the recommendations from the Report of the Vermont
Campus Sexual Harm Task Force and develop prevention solutions to sexual
harm based on those recommendations; [Repealed.]


--- Page 13 ---
- 3925 -
(2)
implement interdisciplinary planning and information sharing to
support sexual violence prevention programs on every college campus in
Vermont; [Repealed.]
(3) undertake an annual review of trends in aggregate data collected by
institutions of higher learning regarding sexual violence on college campuses
in Vermont; [Repealed.]
(4) identify and share information about effective practices on regarding
sexual violence prevention and response, sexual health education, and
strategies for mitigating sexual harm and secondary impacts of sexual harm on
college campuses in Vermont;
(5)
identify
share
information
about
campus-wide
activities,
publications, and services that promote a campus culture of respect to support
the prevention of sexual harm;
(6) recommend statutory protections to the General Assembly not later
than November 1, 2021 to ensure that survivors of sexual harm are not
punished for reporting an incident of sexual violence due to alcohol, drug use,
or other minor conduct violations occurring at or around the time of an assault;
and [Repealed.]
(7)
create or promote annual share information about training
opportunities addressing prevention and sexual assault response processes open
to representatives from all Vermont postsecondary schools for college
populations.
(d)
Assistance.
The Council shall have the administrative and technical
assistance of the Network Against Domestic and Sexual Violence. [Repealed.]
(e) Report. On or before December 1, 2022 and annually thereafter, the
Council shall submit a written report to the General Assembly with a summary
of activities and any recommendations for legislative action. [Repealed.]
(f) Meetings.
(1) The Network Against Domestic and Sexual Violence shall call the
first meeting of the Council to occur on or before July 15, 2021 November 15,
2026.
(2) The Council shall select a chair co-chairs from among its members
at the first meeting, with one chair representing a public postsecondary school
and one chair representing a private postsecondary school.
(3) A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum.
(4) The Council shall meet quarterly twice per year.


--- Page 14 ---
- 3926 -
(5)
Members who are not otherwise compensated by the member’s
employer
for
attendance
at
meetings
shall
be
entitled
to
per
diem
compensation and reimbursement of expenses as permitted under 32 V.S.A. §
1010. These payments shall be made from monies appropriated to the Network
Against Domestic and Sexual Violence for such purposes The co-chairs shall
provide the Council with administrative support.
(6) The Council may invite or consult other community representatives
as it deems appropriate.
* * * Hazing, Harassment, and Bullying Advisory Council * * *
Sec. 6. 16 V.S.A. § 570 is amended to read:
§ 570. HARASSMENT, HAZING, AND BULLYING PREVENTION
POLICIES
* * *
(d) Duties of the Secretary. The Secretary shall:
(1) develop and, from time to time, update model harassment, hazing,
and bullying prevention policies; and
(2) establish an Advisory Council to review and coordinate school and
statewide activities relating to the prevention of and response to harassment,
hazing, and bullying. The Council shall report annually in January to the State
Board and the House and Senate Committees on Education. The Council shall
include:
(A) the Executive Director of the Vermont Principals’ Association or
designee;
(B) the Executive Director of the Vermont School Boards Association
or designee;
(C)
the
Executive
Director
of
the
Vermont
Superintendents
Association or designee;
(D) the President of the Vermont-National Education Association or
designee;
(E)
the
Executive
Director
of
the
Vermont
Human
Rights
Commission or designee;
(F) the Executive Director of the Vermont Independent Schools
Association or designee; and


--- Page 15 ---
- 3927 -
(G) other members selected by the Secretary, at least one of whom
shall be a current secondary student who has witnessed or experienced
harassment, hazing, or bullying in the school environment; and
(3) provide the Advisory Council with administrative support.
(e) Advisory Council on Harassment, Hazing, and Bullying Prevention in
Schools.
(1)
Membership.
The Advisory Council shall be composed of the
following members:
(A) the Executive Director of the Vermont Principals’ Association or
designee;
(B)
the Executive Director
of
the Vermont
School
Boards
Association or designee;
(C)
the Executive Director
of
the Vermont
Superintendents
Association or designee;
(D) the President of the Vermont-National Education Association or
designee;
(E)
the
Executive Director
of
the Vermont
Human
Rights
Commission or designee;
(F)
the Executive Director of the Vermont Independent Schools
Association or designee;
(G)
two members who serve as designated employees under the
hazing, harassment, and bullying prevention policy, appointed by the Secretary
of Education;
(H)
a member, appointed by the Vermont Educational Equity
Collective;
(I) a school social worker, appointed by the National Association of
Social Workers-Vermont Chapter;
(J)
a member, appointed by the Vermont Coalition for Disability
Rights;
(K)
a student member, appointed by the Vermont Student Anti-
Racism Network;
(L) a student member, appointed by Outright Vermont;
(M) a member, appointed by the Office of Racial Equity;
(N) a member, appointed by the Commission on Women;


--- Page 16 ---
- 3928 -
(O) a member, appointed by the Vermont Network Against Domestic
and Sexual Violence; and
(P) a parent or caregiver member, appointed by the Vermont Family
Network.
(2) Duties. The Advisory Council shall:
(A) meet at least four and not more than 12 times per year;
(B)
review and advise on coordination of school and statewide
activities relating to the prevention of and response to harassment, hazing, and
bullying;
(C)
review the model harassment, hazing, and bullying prevention
policies developed by the Secretary every three years, beginning in 2026, and
recommend updates to the policies as necessary;
(D)
review and advise on resources on harassment, hazing, and
bullying prevention and response for school professionals;
(E)
annually solicit input from students, parents, and schools on
harassment, hazing, and bullying; and
(F) notwithstanding 2 V.S.A. § 20(d), annually on or before January
15, submit a written report to House and Senate Committees on Education,
which shall hold a joint legislative hearing each legislative session to review
the report.
The Advisory Council shall also submit the report to the State
Board of Education at the same time.
(3)
Compensation and reimbursement.
Members of the Advisory
Council shall be entitled to per diem compensation and reimbursement of
expenses as permitted under 32 V.S.A. § 1010 for not more than 12 meetings
of the Advisory Council per year from funds appropriated to the Agency of
Education.
(e)(f) Definitions. In this subchapter:
(1) “Educational institution” and “school” mean a public school or an
approved or recognized independent school as defined in section 11 of this
title.
(2) “Organization,” “pledging,” and “student” have the same meanings
as in section 570i of this title.
(3) “Harassment,” “hazing,” and “bullying” have the same meanings as
in subdivisions 11(a)(26), (30), and (32) of this title.


--- Page 17 ---
- 3929 -
(4)
“School board” means the board of directors or other governing
body of an educational institution when referring to an independent school.
Sec. 7. APPROPRIATION
The sum of $21,000.00 is appropriated from the General Fund to the
Agency of Education in fiscal year 2027 for per diem compensation and
reimbursement of expenses for the Advisory Council on Harassment, Hazing,
and Bullying Prevention as authorized pursuant to 16 V.S.A. § 570(e)(3).
* * * Energy Performance Contracting * * *
Sec. 8. 16 V.S.A. § 3448f(a)(1) is amended to read:
(1)
“Cost-saving measure” means any facility improvement, repair,
addition, or alteration or any equipment, fixture, or furnishing to be
constructed or installed in any facility that is designed to reduce energy
consumption and operating costs or to increase the operating efficiency of
facilities for their appointed functions, that is cost effective, and that is further
defined by State Board rule.
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
New Business
Action Under Rule 52
J.R.H. 12
Joint resolution authorizing remote joint committee voting through the
remainder of calendar year 2026 and the application of the ADA thereto
(For text, see House Journal of May 27, 2026)
NOTICE CALENDAR
Favorable
S. 64
An act relating to amendments to the scope of practice for optometrists
Rep. Soucy of Barre Town, for the Committee on Health Care,
recommends that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
(Committee Vote: 10-1-0)


--- Page 18 ---
- 3930 -
Rep. Birong of Vergennes, for the Committee on Government Operations
and Military Affairs, recommends that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
(Committee Vote: 7-4-0)
Rep. Waszazak of Barre City, for the Committee on Ways and Means,
recommends that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
(Committee Vote: 7-4-0)
Rep. Mrowicki of Putney, for the Committee on Appropriations,
recommends that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
(Committee Vote: 10-1-0)
Senate Proposal of Amendment
H. 935
An act relating to emergency management
The Senate proposes to the House to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Ready Response Grant Program * * *
Sec. 1. 20 V.S.A. § 52 is added to read:
§ 52. READY RESPONSE GRANT PROGRAM
(a) As used in this section, “ready response” means the provision of short-
term food and bottled water resources, including logistical support and
transportation, to individuals in Vermont who do not have adequate access to
food and water at agreed upon times when the Division of Emergency
Management seeks resource assistance from a grantee or responds to an all-
hazards event or state of emergency.
(b) There is created the Ready Response Grant Program to be managed and
administered by the Division of Emergency Management. The Division shall
award an annual grant to an eligible food bank to source, store, and distribute
shelf-stable, ready-to-eat foods and bottled water at times and in types and
quantities per a written memorandum of agreement with the Division.
(c) The grant shall be in an amount sufficient to compensate the grantee for
all costs incurred to procure and stage food and water in agreed upon
quantities and locations, the costs of cycling the food and water at agreed-upon
intervals, the value of distribution center storage capacity, the value of
operational capacity to stage materials in anticipation of need, and the costs of
distribution whenever the Division seeks resource assistance from the grantee
or responds to an all-hazards event or state of emergency.
As used in this


--- Page 19 ---
- 3931 -
subsection, the “value of operational capacity” includes leased storage space,
delivery vehicles, drivers, warehouse selectors, and other operational costs.
(d)
Food and water supplies subject to a grant and under the grantee’s
control shall be rotated and replenished according to established industry
guidelines and best practices. Rotated food and water shall be redistributed in
an equitable manner by the grantee through Vermont’s charitable food system
to Vermont nonprofit organizations qualifying under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)
that provide food to individuals in Vermont.
(e) To the extent that the Division requests services from the grantee that
are not covered by the Grant Program, a separate agreement shall be reached
between the Division and the grantee.
* * * Technical Rescue Grant Program * * *
Sec. 2. 20 V.S.A. § 53 is added to read:
§ 53. TECHNICAL RESCUE GRANT PROGRAM
(a)
Creation of Program.
There is created the Technical Rescue Grant
Program to assist Vermont fire departments, emergency medical services
agencies, and technical rescue agencies with the improvement of operational
readiness and investment in specialized equipment, personal protective gear,
and training.
The Program shall be administered by the Urban Search and
Rescue (USAR) Team program manager.
(b) Duties of USAR Team program manager. The USAR Team program
manager, in addition to other duties described elsewhere in law, shall review
grant applications, award grants, and otherwise administer the Program.
(c) Eligibility. Fire departments, emergency medical services agencies, and
technical rescue agencies operating within Vermont shall be eligible for
Program grants. Grant applicants shall demonstrate their use, planned use, or
need for technical rescue operations within their service area.
All grant
applicants shall submit their application on a form adopted by the USAR Team
program manager. The USAR Team program manager shall prioritize grant
awards for applicants that:
(1)
maintain a memorandum of understanding with the Division of
Emergency Management for swiftwater rescue; or
(2)
function as regional technical rescue teams providing services in
multiple jurisdictions.
(d) Grant award limitations. The maximum award to any applicant in a
given fiscal year shall be not more than $5,000.00.
The Program shall not
award more than $25,000.00 in total grants in a given fiscal year.


--- Page 20 ---
- 3932 -
(e) Application review and scoring. The USAR Team program manager
shall adopt procedures governing application submission, forms, review,
scoring, and recommendation of awards.
The procedures for application
scoring shall include alignment with the Program priorities in subsection (a) of
this section, operational need, geographic service area, feasibility of the
proposed project, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability of the applicant’s
services.
(f) Grant recipient reporting; report. Each grant recipient shall submit to
the USAR Team program manager a final expenditure report, proof of
purchase or training completion, and a narrative description of how the grant
improved the recipient’s technical rescue capacity.
Annually on or before
November 15, the USAR Team program manager shall submit a written report
to the House Committee on Government Operations and Military Affairs and
the Senate Committee on Government Operations summarizing grant awards,
outcomes, and Program recommendations.
(g)
Rulemaking.
The USAR Team program manager may adopt rules
pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 as needed to implement this section.
Sec. 2a. 20 V.S.A. § 50 is amended to read:
§ 50. URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAM
* * *
(b)
The USAR Team program manager shall perform all the following
duties:
* * *
(5) negotiate and enter into agreements with municipalities, municipal
agencies that maintain swiftwater rescue teams, State-recognized swiftwater
rescue teams, or other technical rescue teams to provide expert assistance and
services to the USAR Team when necessary; and
(6) coordinate USAR Team participation in search and rescue operations
under chapter 112 of this title; and
(7) administer the Technical Rescue Grant Program pursuant to section
53 of this title.
* * *
* * * Disability Inclusion in Emergency Planning * * *
Sec. 3. 20 V.S.A. § 2 is amended to read:
§ 2. DEFINITIONS


--- Page 21 ---
- 3933 -
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(13)
“Whole community” means the collective of residents; emergency
management practitioners; organizational and community leaders; and local,
State, and federal government officials.
Sec. 4. 20 V.S.A. § 6 is amended to read:
§ 6. LOCAL AND REGIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT
* * *
(c)(1)
Each local organization shall develop and maintain an all-hazards
emergency management plan in accordance with the State Emergency
Management Plan and guidance set forth by the Division of Emergency
Management.
* * *
(3) The Division shall advise municipalities that when a shelter is sited
under a local emergency plan, the municipality should work with the Agency
of
Human
Services,
the
American Red
Cross,
and
community-based
emergency or charitable food providers whole community, to assess the
facility and the facility’s potential operations, including the characteristics of
the surrounding area during an all-hazards event, multiple routes of travel and
possible hazards that could prevent access to the shelter, and the need for
immediate and sustained access to food and water for individuals using the
shelter.
(4) The Division, in coordination with the Agency of Human Services
whole community, shall advise municipalities, upon completion of a local
emergency management plan, on how to conduct training and exercises
pertaining to sheltering.
* * *
Sec. 5. 20 V.S.A. § 32 is amended to read:
§ 32. LOCAL EMERGENCY PLANNING COMMITTEES; CREATION;
DUTIES
* * *
(b) All local emergency planning committees shall include representatives
from the following: fire departments; local and regional emergency medical
services; local, county, and State law enforcement; other entities providing


--- Page 22 ---
- 3934 -
first responders or emergency management personnel; organizations serving
vulnerable populations; media; transportation; regional planning commissions;
hospitals; industry; the Vermont National Guard; the Department of Health’s
district office; and an animal rescue organization, and may include any other
interested public or private individual or organization.
Where the local
emergency planning committee represents more than one region of the State,
the Commission shall appoint representatives that are geographically diverse.
(c) A local emergency planning committee shall perform all the following
duties:
(1) Carry out all the requirements of a committee pursuant to EPCRA,
including preparing a local emergency planning committee plan.
The plan
shall be coordinated with the State emergency management plan Emergency
Management Plan and may be expanded to address all-hazards identified in the
State emergency management plan Emergency Management Plan.
A local
emergency
planning
committee
shall
coordinate
with
disability-led
organizations throughout all phases of emergency management planning. At a
minimum, the local emergency planning committee plan shall include the
following:
* * *
Sec. 6. [Deleted.]
* * * Town Forest Fire Wardens * * *
Sec. 7. 10 V.S.A. § 2603 is amended to read:
§ 2603. POWERS AND DUTIES: COMMISSIONER
* * *
(d)
The Commissioner or designee shall be the State fire warden Forest
Fire Warden and may act as, and in place of, the town forest fire warden of any
municipality, unorganized town, or gore as provided under subchapter 4 of this
chapter.
The Commissioner or designee, as State Forest Fire Warden, shall
have the authority to:
(1) exercise the authority and duties of a town forest fire warden as set
forth in subchapter 4 of this chapter;
(2) appoint special forest fire wardens and delegate the authority of the
State Forest Fire Warden to the special forest fire wardens;
(3)
take command and control of a forest fire in any municipality or
unorganized town or gore in the State when, in the State Forest Fire Warden’s
determination, it is necessary to do so, or when resources are needed in


--- Page 23 ---
- 3935 -
addition to local resources, and act as incident commander over all other fire
officials;
(4) delegate the authority to act as incident commander of a forest fire
to another person or entity;
(5)
serve on the Northeastern Forest Fire Protection Commission or
designate
an
appropriate
Department
representative
to
serve
in
the
Commissioner’s place, pursuant to section 2503 of this title, and exercise all
related authority;
(6)
enter into mutual aid compact agreements as set forth in section
2462 of this title; and
(7)
issue a ban on kindling fires on lands owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources when necessary.
* * *
Sec. 8. 10 V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapter 4 is amended to read:
Subchapter 4. Forest Fires and Fire Prevention
§ 2641. TOWN FOREST FIRE WARDENS; APPOINTMENT AND
REMOVAL
(a) Upon approval by the selectboard and acceptance by the appointee, the
Commissioner shall appoint a town forest fire warden for a term of five years
or until a successor is appointed. A town forest fire warden may be
reappointed for successive five-year terms by the Commissioner or until a
successor is approved by the selectboard and appointed by the Commissioner.
The warden may be removed for cause at any time by the Commissioner with
the approval of the selectboard. A warden shall comply with training
requirements established by the Commissioner.
The chief of the fire
department, fire district, or private fire department with the jurisdictional
responsibility to respond to a municipality, unorganized town, or gore is
designated as the town forest fire warden and shall have the authority to
exercise all the powers and duties of a town forest fire warden.
For any
municipality, unorganized town, or gore that is covered by two or more fire
districts or has two or more fire departments, the municipality, unorganized
town, or gore shall designate one fire chief as town forest fire warden and shall
notify the Commissioner of the designation.
(b) The Commissioner may appoint a forest fire warden for an unorganized
town or gore, who shall serve for a term of five years or until a successor is
appointed. An appointed forest fire warden for an unorganized town or gore
may be reappointed for successive five-year terms by the Commissioner until


--- Page 24 ---
- 3936 -
the Commissioner appoints and the unorganized town or gore approves a
successor. The warden may be removed for cause at any time by the
Commissioner with the approval of the unorganized town or gore. The forest
fire warden of an unorganized town or gore shall have the same powers and
duties as town forest fire wardens and shall be subject to the requirements of
this subchapter. The chief of the fire department, fire district, or private fire
department with the jurisdictional responsibility to respond to a municipality,
unorganized town, or gore, as town forest fire warden, may designate deputy
town forest fire wardens. The town forest fire warden shall provide a list of all
designated deputy forest fire wardens to the Commissioner. Deputy forest fire
wardens shall only have the authority to issue permits to kindle a fire as set
forth in sections 2644 and 2645 of this subchapter.
(c) When there are woodlands within the limits of a city, the chief of the
fire department of such city shall act as the city forest fire warden with all the
powers and duties of town forest fire wardens.
When a municipality,
unorganized town, or gore does not have a fire department or is not covered by
a fire district, the municipality, unorganized town, or gore may contract with a
neighboring fire department or fire district to designate the chief of the fire
department or fire district to serve as the town forest fire warden for the
municipality, unorganized town, or gore.
When a private fire department
provides fire suppression and control services to a municipality, unorganized
town, or gore, the chief of the private fire department may serve as the town
forest fire warden when approved by the municipality, unorganized town, or
gore.
(d) When the Commissioner deems it difficult in any municipality for one
warden to take charge of protecting the entire municipality from forest fires,
he or she may appoint one or more deputy forest fire wardens. Such wardens
under the direction of the fire warden shall have the same powers, duties, and
pay and make the same reports through the fire warden to the Commissioner as
forest fire wardens. [Repealed.]
(e) The Commissioner may appoint designate special forest fire wardens
who shall hold office during at the pleasure of the Commissioner. Such The
fire wardens shall be employees of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation with forest fire suppression and control training, and shall have the
same powers and duties throughout the State as town forest fire wardens,
except that all expenses and charges incurred on account of their official acts
shall be paid from the appropriations for the Department.


--- Page 25 ---
- 3937 -
§ 2642. SALARY AND COMPENSATION OF TOWN FOREST FIRE
WARDENS
(a) The salary of a town forest fire warden and any deputy town forest fire
warden shall be determined by the selectboard members for time spent in the
performance of the duties of his or her the warden’s office, which shall be paid
by the town.
In addition thereto, he or she shall receive from the
Commissioner $30.00 annually for fulfilling the requirements of section 2645
of this title and keeping the required State records. He or she shall also receive
from the Commissioner $30.00 per diem for attendance at each training
required by the Commissioner. He or she shall also receive annually an amount
of $10.00 for each fire report that is submitted by the forest fire warden under
section 2644 of this title.
* * *
§ 2643. TOWN’S LIABILITY FOR SUPPRESSION OF FOREST FIRES;
STATE AID
(a)
A municipality in which a forest fire occurs shall pay the cost to
suppress a forest fire that occurs on land that is not owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources, including the costs of personnel and equipment.
The
Commissioner
may,
according
to
the
Department
fire
suppression
reimbursement policy when funds have been appropriated or are otherwise
available, reimburse a municipality for all or a portion of the costs of
suppressing a forest fire on land that is not owned by the Agency of Natural
Resources.
(b)
For the purpose of suppressing forest fires on lands owned by the
Agency of Natural Resources, the State shall may reimburse a town
municipality or unorganized town or gore for some or all its forest fire
suppression costs at a rate determined by the Commissioner according to the
Department fire suppression reimbursement policy. If the total acreage of a
forest fire is determined to be partially on land owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources and partially on land owned by another party, the
Commissioner shall, at a minimum, reimburse the town at a rate determined by
the
Commissioner
according
to
the
Department
fire
suppression
reimbursement policy for costs incurred by the municipality on land owned by
the Agency of Natural Resources if, at a minimum, the requirements in
subsection (c) of this section are satisfied. The Commissioner may establish
additional requirements and guidance regarding reimbursement.
(c) For any forest fire on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources
to be considered eligible for reimbursement from the State, a town forest fire
warden shall have reported the forest fire to the Commissioner within 14 days


--- Page 26 ---
- 3938 -
of extinguishment of the fire as required under section 2644 of this title. For
reimbursement of fire suppression costs for forest fires on land owned by the
Agency of
Natural
Resources,
the town forest
fire warden and
the
Commissioner or designee shall approve the costs before submission to the
municipality for payment. The town forest fire warden may submit to the State
on an annual basis a request for reimbursement of fire suppression costs on
lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources. The State shall reimburse a
town for all applicable forest fire suppression costs when the reimbursement
request is presented in a form approved by the Commissioner to the
Commissioner by December 31 of each year. a municipality, unorganized
town, or gore shall, at a minimum, satisfy the following requirements:
(1) The town forest fire warden of a municipality, unorganized town, or
gore shall request assistance within one hour of discovery after the forest fire
from the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation Wildland Fire Team, for
the suppression of the forest fire on land owned by the Agency of Natural
Resources.
(2) The town forest fire warden shall submit a report of the forest fire to
the Commissioner within 24 hours after extinguishment of the fire as required
under section 2644 of this title.
(3) The municipality, unorganized town, or gore shall submit detailed
documentation of the costs of suppression of the forest fire to the
Commissioner within 60 days after extinguishment of the forest fire.
(4)
The Commissioner shall review and approve the request for
reimbursement.
(d)
For requests for reimbursement approved by the Commissioner for
forest fire suppression costs of a municipality, unorganized town, or gore on
land owned by the Agency of Natural Resources, payment of the costs shall be
made by the Commissioner of Finance and Management to the municipality,
unorganized town, or gore. The funds for the payment are to be taken from
the appropriation for forest fire suppression.
§ 2644. DUTIES AND POWERS OF FIRE WARDEN
(a) When a forest fire or fire threatening a forest forestland is discovered in
his or her town the warden’s jurisdiction of responsibility, the town forest fire
warden shall enter upon any premises and take measures for its prompt
control, suppression, and extinguishment.
The town forest fire warden may
call upon any person for assistance. The town forest fire warden may choose to
share or delegate command authority to a chief engineer of a responding fire
department or, in the chief’s absence, the highest ranking assistant firefighter


--- Page 27 ---
- 3939 -
present during the fire. Within 24 hours after discovery of the forest fire on
lands not owned by the Agency of Natural Resources, the town forest fire
warden shall notify the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation that the
fire was discovered.
(b) A town forest fire warden shall keep prepare a report for all forest fires
in the warden’s jurisdiction that includes, at a minimum, the following
information: a record of his or her the warden’s acts, the number of forest
fires and causes of the forest fires, the areas burned over, and the character and
amount of damages done in the warden’s jurisdiction. Within two weeks 48
hours after the extinguishment of a fire, the town forest fire warden shall file a
report of the fire to the Commissioner, but the making of a report under this
subsection shall not be a charge against the town.
* * *
(d) Within 12 hours after granting permission to kindle a fire pursuant to
section 2645 of this subchapter, the town forest fire warden or deputy forest
fire warden shall issue a written “Permit to Kindle” stating when and where
the fire may be kindled, including any conditions deemed appropriate by the
town forest fire warden.
§ 2645. OPEN BURNING; PERMITS
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person shall not kindle
or authorize another person to kindle a fire in the open air for the purpose of
burning natural wood, brush, weeds, or grass without first obtaining
permission a permit to kindle a fire from the town forest fire warden or deputy
forest fire warden stating when and where such the fire may be kindled and
imposing any conditions deemed necessary by the town forest fire warden or
deputy forest fire warden.
Special forest fire wardens designated by the
Commissioner shall issue permits for Category 3 fires on land owned by the
Agency of Natural Resources.
Wood, brush, weeds, or grass shall not be
burned if they have been altered in any way by surface applications or
injection of paints, stains, preservatives, oils, glues, or pesticides. Whenever
such permission is granted, the fire warden, within 12 hours, shall issue a
written “Permit to Kindle” for record purposes stating when and where such
fire may be kindled.
(b) With the written approval of the Secretary, during During periods of
increased fire hazard, or when the Department of Environmental Conservation
has issued an Air Quality Alert due to forecasted ambient air quality, the
Commissioner may:


--- Page 28 ---
- 3940 -
(1) notify Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period no
burning permits to kindle a fire shall be issued. The forest fire wardens shall
issue no permits during the specified period.
(2) Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period of time
permits for Category 2 or 3 fires shall be prohibited or restricted as set forth by
the Commissioner.
(3) Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period of time,
Category 1 fires shall be prohibited or restricted as set forth by the
Commissioner.
(c) The provisions of this section will not apply to A permit to kindle a fire
is not required for the following categories or conditions when the
requirements set forth below are satisfied:
(1) the kindling of a fire in a location where there is snow surrounding
the open burning site;
(2) fires built in stone arches, outdoor fireplaces, or existing fire rings at
State recreational areas or fires built in stone arches, outdoor fireplaces, or fire
rings on private property that are not located within woodland, timberland, or
a field containing dry grass or other flammable plant material contiguous to
woodland; Category 1 fires; or
(3) the kindling of a fire in a location that is 200 feet or more from any
woodland, timberland, or field containing dry grass or other flammable plant
material contiguous to woodland; or
(4) areas within cities maintaining a fire department. the kindling of a
fire that complies with all requirements established by rule adopted by the
Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation when a person is primitive
camping on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources.
(d)(1) The Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation may issue a ban
on kindling fires on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources when
necessary.
(e) As used in this section, “natural wood”:
(1)
“Category
1”
includes
campfires
that
meet
the
following
requirements:
(A) fires 36 inches in diameter or less that are built in stone arches,
outdoor fireplaces, or existing fire rings at State recreational areas, other public
recreational areas, or on private property; or


--- Page 29 ---
- 3941 -
(B) fires 36 inches in diameter or less built in a location that is 200
feet or more from any forestland, or field containing dry grass or other
flammable plant materials contiguous to forestland.
(2)
“Category 2” includes natural wood fires that meet the following
requirements:
(A) fires in piles larger than 36 inches in diameter; or
(B)
fires 36 inches in diameter or less, not built in stone arches,
outdoor fireplaces, or existing fires rings at State recreational areas, other
public recreational areas, or on private property.
(3) “Category 3 broadcast burn” includes fires that meet the following
requirements:
(A) Fires applied to existing vegetation in a predetermined land area,
in a manner to meet specific or prescribed objectives, including fuels
management, slash abatement, firefighter training, agricultural field burning,
forest management, wildlife habitat management, or introduced species
management.
(B)
All Category 3 fires must have a plan that includes location,
objectives, and contingency for escaped fire.
(4)
“Forestland” means woodlands, timberland, brushland, forest, and
woodlots.
(5) “Natural wood” means:
* * *
(2)(6)
“Natural wood” does not mean other wood products such as
sawdust, plywood, particle board, or press board.
“Natural wood” does not
mean wood, brush, weeds, or grass if they have been altered in any way by
surface applications or injections of paints, stains, preservatives, oils, glues, or
pesticides.
* * *
§ 2646. PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR PROHIBITING KINDLING
OF FIRES: CLOSING OF WOODLANDS FORESTLANDS
(a) Whenever it appears to the Governor that there is excessive danger of
forest fires, he or she the Governor may prohibit by proclamation the kindling
of a fire in or adjoining forestland or close any or all sections of woodland
forestland, or brushland, in any town for such time as the Governor may
designate, to all persons except the owner and his or her household, his or her


--- Page 30 ---
- 3942 -
tenants, servants, or agents and persons in the public employment engaged in
abating such fire-hazardous condition.
(b) Proclamations shall be published in such newspapers of the State and
posted in such places and in such manner as the Governor may order in
writing. A copy of such publication the proclamation and order, attested by
the Secretary of Civil and Military Affairs, shall be filed with the Secretary of
State and a like copy shall be furnished to the Commissioner who shall attend
to the publication and posting thereof of the proclamation. The expenses of
such publication and posting shall be paid by the Department.
Notice of
removal of restrictions imposed by proclamation shall be in the same manner.
§ 2647. FIRES IN WOODS FORESTLAND OF ANOTHER; PERMISSION
No one shall build a fire in the woodlands forestland of another without the
permission of the owner, lessee, holder of right-of-way, or his or her
authorized agent between April 1 and November 1. A person who builds a fire
in or adjoining any woods shall totally extinguish such fire before leaving it.
§ 2648. SLASH REMOVAL
(a)
A person may cut or cause to be cut forest growth only if all slash
adjoining the right-of-way of any public highway, or the boundary lines of
woodlots forestland owned by adjoining property owners, is treated as follows:
(1) All slash shall be removed for a distance of 50 feet from the right-
of-way of any public highway or from the boundary lines of woodlots
forestland owned by adjoining property owners.
* * *
(d) As used in this section, “slash” means the branches, tree tops, and other
woody debris left on the forest floor after logging.
Sec. 9. REPEAL
10 V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapter 7 (uniform fire prevention ticket) is
repealed.
Sec. 10. 20 V.S.A. § 2673 is amended to read:
§ 2673. POWERS AND DUTIES DURING HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL OR
SUBSTANCE INCIDENT, FIRES; THREAT OF FIRES OR
EXPLOSIONS; FOREST FIRES
* * *


--- Page 31 ---
- 3943 -
(e) The chief of a fire district is designated as the town forest fire warden
under 10 V.S.A chapter 83, subchapter 4 and shall have the authority and
duties related to forest fires pursuant to that subchapter.
Sec. 11. 20 V.S.A. § 2992 is amended to read:
§ 2992. DEFINITION
The term “private fire department” includes fire protection organizations
operated by industries, institutions, and establishments for self-protection and
also nonprofit volunteer fire associations.
Nothing contained in this
subchapter shall be construed to interfere with the exclusive jurisdiction vested
by law in the State Forester and the State Forester’s subordinates or the State
Forest Fire Warden over forest fires as provided in 10 V.S.A. § 2603(d); 10
V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapters subchapter 4 and 7; or 10 V.S.A. chapter 81,
nor to affect the laws governing prevention or extinguishment of forest fires.
Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere with
general authorization vested by law in a chief engineer of a fire district or chief
of a volunteer fire department to give outside aid as provided in sections 2674
and 2961 of this title.
* * * Increasing Wildland Fire Response Capacity Task Force * * *
Sec. 11a. INCREASING WILDLAND FIRE RESPONSE CAPACITY
TASK FORCE; REPORT
(a)
Creation.
There is created the Increasing Wildland Fire Response
Capacity Task Force to examine and report on increasing Vermont’s capacity
for wildland fire response.
(b) Membership. The following individuals and entities shall be invited by
Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation to join the Task Force:
(1) the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation;
(2) Vermont Emergency Management;
(3) the Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Safety;
(4) the Green Mountain National Forest;
(5) the Vermont League of Cities and Towns; and
(6) two municipal fire chiefs, with one being a career fire fighter and
the other being a volunteer fire fighter.
(c) Powers and duties. The Task Force shall examine how to best increase
Vermont’s capacity for wildland fire response, including:


--- Page 32 ---
- 3944 -
(1)
examining available information on wildland fire incidence and
existing response capacity, and making recommendations regarding staffing,
funding, equipment, supplies, and infrastructure, including vehicles, necessary
to increase wildland fire response capacity; and
(2)
identifying any potential policy or statutory changes needed to
improve
wildland
fire
response
capacity;
clarify
statewide
roles
and
responsibilities among State, municipal, and federal entities; and recommend
any coordination and communication improvements.
(d) Assistance.
The Task Force shall have the administrative, technical,
and legal assistance of Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation.
(e) Report. On or before February 15, 2027, and again on or before July
2027, the Task Force shall submit a written report to House Committees on
Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and on Government Operations and
Military Affairs and to the Senate Committees on Natural Resources and
Energy and on Government Operations with its findings to date and any
recommendations for legislative action.
(f) Meetings.
(1)
The Commissioner of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation, or designee, shall call the first meeting of the Task Force.
(2)
The Commissioner of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation, or designee, shall be the chair of the Task Force.
(3) A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum.
(4) The Task Force shall cease to exist on November 16, 2027.
(g) Compensation and reimbursement. Members of the Task Force shall be
entitled to per diem compensation and reimbursement of expenses as permitted
under 32 V.S.A. § 1010.
These payments shall be made from monies
appropriated to the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation.
* * * Public Safety Communications * * *
Sec. 12. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY; PUBLIC SAFETY
COMMUNICATIONS TASK FORCE; AUTHORIZATION FOR
ONGOING EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS
(a)
The General Assembly authorizes the use of monies appropriated or
held in reserve pursuant 2022 Acts and Resolves No. 185, Sec. B.1100, as
amended by 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78, Sec. C.115 and 2023 Acts and
Resolves No. 87, Sec. 49, for the Department of Public Safety to procure and


--- Page 33 ---
- 3945 -
implement a multidisciplinary computer-aided dispatch system for public
safety communications, subject to the following:
(1) $2,250,000.00 shall be available for immediate costs associated with
establishing the multidisciplinary computer-aided dispatch system and five
years of software licensing fees, provided that the Department issues requests
for proposal and signs contracts for services on or before January 1, 2027;
(2)
$190,000.00 shall be immediately available for cybersecurity,
expanded use of Rapid SOS, and geographic information systems; and
(3) $4,500,000.00 shall be available incrementally over three years to:
(A)
implement and expand the Land Mobile Radio network to
include a Statewide conceptual design;
(B)
detail designs for one or more proof of concept projects and
initially implement pilot projects; and
(C) build out or improve 10 or more Land Mobile Radio sites,
including equipment and antenna deployment at existing chosen sites.
(b)
Notwithstanding any provisions of 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78,
Sec. C.114 to the contrary, the Public Safety Communications Task Force shall
continue in existence until February 15, 2027. The Task Force shall meet as
necessary to advise the Department of Public Safety on executing the Task
Force recommendations and final design plan. Notwithstanding 2023 Acts and
Resolves No. 78, Sec. C.114(d)(3), members of the Task Force shall be
entitled to per diem compensation and reimbursement of expenses permitted
under 32 V.S.A. § 1010.
These payments shall be made from monies
appropriated to the Department of Public Safety.
(c)
The Department of Public Safety shall submit written reports to the
House Committees on Appropriations and on Government Operations and
Military
Affairs
and
the
Senate
Committees
on
Appropriations
and
Government Operations concerning the expenditure of monies pursuant to this
section. The Department shall submit the written reports on or before May 1,
2027, January 15, 2028, and January 15, 2029, concerning the expenditures
made during each respective reporting period.
Sec. 13. [Deleted.]
* * * Programs Contingent on Availability of Agency Funds * * *
Sec. 13a. PROGRAMS CONTINGENT ON AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY
FUNDS


--- Page 34 ---
- 3946 -
The duty to implement Secs. 1 (Ready Response Grant Program) and 2
(Technical Rescue Grant Program) of this act is contingent upon the
availability of sufficient funds within the Department of Public Safety and the
Agency of Administration to support the programs.
* * * Appropriation * * *
Sec. 13b. [Deleted.]
* * * Emergency Rule * * *
Sec. 13c. 3 V.S.A. § 844 is amended to read:
§ 844. EMERGENCY RULES
(a) Where an agency believes that there exists an imminent peril to public
health, safety, or welfare, it may adopt an emergency rule. The rule may be
adopted without having been prefiled or filed in proposed or final proposed
form, and may be adopted after whatever notice and hearing the agency finds
to be practicable under the circumstances. The agency shall make reasonable
efforts to ensure that emergency rules are known to persons who may be
affected by them.
* * *
(g)
In the alternative to the grounds specified in subsection (a) of this
section, an agency may adopt emergency amendments to existing rules using
the process set forth in this section if each of the subdivisions (1)–(5) of this
subsection applies.
On a majority vote of the entire Committee, the
Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules may object to the emergency
amendments on the basis that one or more of these subdivisions do not apply
or under subdivision (e)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, or both.
(1) The existing rules implement a program controlled by federal statute
or rule or by a multistate entity.
(2) The controlling federal statute or rule has been amended to require a
change in the program, or the multistate entity has made a change in the
program that is to be implemented in all of the participating states.
(3)
The controlling federal statute or rule or the multistate entity
requires implementation of the change within 120 days or less.
(4) The adopting authority finds each of the following in writing:
(A)
The agency cannot by the date required for implementation
complete the final adoption of amended rules using the process set forth in
sections 837 through 843 837–843 of this title.


--- Page 35 ---
- 3947 -
(B)
Failure
to
amend
the
rules
by
the
date
required
for
implementation would cause significant harm to the public health, safety, or
welfare or significant financial loss to the State.
(5) On the date the emergency rule amendments are adopted pursuant to
this subsection, the adopting authority prefiles a corresponding permanent rule
pursuant to section 837 of this title.
(h) In addition to the grounds for emergency rulemaking under subsections
(a) and (g) of this section, an agency may adopt an emergency rule under this
section if an amendment to a federal statute, rule, or policy will materially
conflict with or threaten the ability of the agency to implement a statutory or
regulatory program required under Vermont law.
On a majority vote of the
entire Committee, the Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules may
object to proposed emergency rules for adoption under this subsection on the
basis that the provisions of this subsection do not apply.
Sec. 13d. SUNSET OF AGENCY EMERGENCY RULEMAKING
AUTHORITY
3 V.S.A. § 844(h) (emergency rulemaking in response to federal action) is
repealed on July 1, 2028.
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 14. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) This section and sections 13c and 13d shall take effect upon passage.
(b) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
H. 942
An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects
The Senate proposes to the House to amend the bill as follows:
First: In Sec. 3, 6 V.S.A. chapter 37, in section 681, after subdivision (3),
by adding a new subdivision (4) to read as follows and by renumbering the
remaining subdivisions to be numerically correct:
(4) “Convenience store” means a type of retail establishment that sells a
limited number of everyday items such as motor fuel, tobacco products, made-
to-order food, snacks, and beverages that serve as a quick, accessible retail
option for consumers who typically purchase a small number of products, and
that does not offer a sufficient quantity of consumer commodities to make unit
pricing as useful to consumers.
“Convenience store” does not include a
grocery store, drug store, dollar store, or any other type of store.
The


--- Page 36 ---
- 3948 -
Secretary has the discretion to determine whether a retail establishment is a
convenience store.
Second:
In Sec. 3, 6 V.S.A. chapter 37, in section 686, by striking out
subsection (a) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (a)
to read as follows:
(a) The unit price requirements of this chapter shall not apply to sales of
consumer commodities commodity sales as follows:
(1)
At a retail store with less than 7,000 square feet of floor space
dedicated to the sale of consumer commodities.
This exception exemption
shall not apply to the sales agencies or instrumentalities retail establishments
of a company having two or more sales agencies or instrumentalities locations
as parts of that company.
(2)
For use or consumption on the premises where sold Convenience
stores.
(3) When different brands or products are commingled in one receptacle
for a limited-time one-priced sale.
(4) When commodities are individually marked with a clearance or sale
tag and are located in a clearance or limited-time sale section of the store.
Clearance or limited-time sale sections may be on a shelf or multiple shelves,
or in another defined area of the store.
(5) When the unit price is identical to the total selling price.
(6) When the item falls into one of the following categories:
(A) seasonal decorations; or
(B)
beverages subject to the Federal Alcoholic Administration Act
packing and labeling requirements.
Third:
By striking out Sec. 4, effective date, and its reader assistance
heading in their entireties and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 4 and reader
assistance heading to read as follows:
Sec. 4. EQUINE FARMING AND USE VALUE APPRAISAL STUDY;
REPORT
(a) The Commissioner of Taxes shall study and provide recommendations
for including equine farming in the Use Value Appraisal Program.  The
Commissioner shall submit the recommendations to the House Committees on
Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and on Ways and Means and the
Senate Committees on Agriculture and on Finance on or before December 15,
2026.  The Commissioner’s recommendations shall include an analysis of the


--- Page 37 ---
- 3949 -
potential fiscal impact of permitting agricultural land and farm buildings that
are used for equine farming to enroll in the Use Value Appraisal Program.
(b) As used in this section:
(1) “Agricultural land” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(1).
(2) “Equine farming” means the raising, feeding, or management of four
or more equines owned or boarded by a farmer for gain or profit, including
training, showing, and providing instruction and lessons in riding, training, and
the management of equines.
(3) “Farm buildings” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(14).
(4) “Farmer” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(7).
Fourth: By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be
Sec. 5 to read as follows:
* * * Community Development Initiatives * * *
Sec. 5. 10 V.S.A. § 325m is amended to read:
§ 325m. RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE
(a) Definitions. As used in this subchapter:
(1) “Rural area” means a county of the State designated as “rural” or
“mostly rural” by the U.S. Census Bureau in its most recent decennial census.
(2) “Small town” means a town in the State with a population of less
than 5,000 at the date of the most recent U.S. Census Bureau decennial census.
(3)
“Community development initiatives” means priority projects
located throughout the State that support agriculture, historic preservation,
outdoor recreation, and other critical economic development needs, which may
be supported when State resources or staffing assistance is not available.
(b)
Establishment.
There is created the Rural Economic Development
Initiative to be administered by the Vermont Housing and Conservation Board
for
the
purpose
of
promoting
and
facilitating
community
economic
development in the small towns and rural areas of the State, and supporting
community development initiatives.
The Rural Economic Development
Initiative
shall
collaborate
with
municipalities,
businesses,
regional
development
corporations,
regional
planning
commissions,
and
other
appropriate entities to access funding and other assistance available to small
towns and businesses primarily in rural areas of the State when existing State
resources or staffing assistance is not available.


--- Page 38 ---
- 3950 -
(c)
Services; access to funding.
The Rural Economic Development
Initiative shall provide the following services to small towns and businesses
primarily in rural areas:
(1) identification of grant or other funding opportunities that facilitate
business
development,
infrastructure
development,
or
other
economic
development opportunities; or
(2)
technical assistance in writing grants, accessing other funding,
coordination with providers of grants or other funding, strategic planning for
the implementation or timing of activities funded by grants or other funding,
and compliance with the requirements of grant awards or awards of other
funding.
(d) Priority. In providing services under this section, the Rural Economic
Development Initiative shall give first priority to projects that have received
necessary State or municipal approval and that are ready for construction or
implementation.
(e)
Priority projects.
The Rural Economic Development Initiative shall
seek to assist include the following priority types of projects:
(1)
milk plants, milk handlers, or dairy products, as those terms are
defined in 6 V.S.A. § 2672;
(2) outdoor recreation and equipment enterprises;
(3) value-added food and forest products enterprises;
(4) farm operations, including phosphorus removal technology for farm
operations;
(5) coworking or business generator and accelerator spaces;
(6) commercial composting facilities; and
(7)
restoration and rehabilitation of historic buildings in community
centers.
(f)
Coordination.
In providing services under this section, the Rural
Economic Development Initiative shall coordinate with the Secretary of
Commerce and Community Development, regional development corporations,
and regional planning commissions.
(g) Report. Beginning on January 31, 2019, and annually thereafter, the
Rural Economic Development Initiative shall submit to the Senate Committees
on Agriculture and on Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs
and the House Committees on Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and
on Commerce and Economic Development a report regarding the activities and


--- Page 39 ---
- 3951 -
progress of the Initiative as part of the report of the Vermont Farm and Forest
Viability Program. The report shall summarize the Initiative’s activities in the
preceding year; evaluate the effectiveness of the services provided by the
Initiative; provide an accounting of the grants or other funding that the
Initiative facilitated or helped secure; and recommend any changes to the
program to further economic development in small towns and rural areas of
the State.
Fifth: By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be Sec.
6 to read as follows:
* * * Farm and Forestry Operations Security Special Fund * * *
Sec. 6. 6 V.S.A. § 4643(e) is amended to read:
(e)
All administratively complete applications shall be evaluated by the
Review Board.
Within 15 days following receipt of an administratively
complete application, the Review Board by majority vote shall recommend to
the Secretary whether to issue a payment to the applicant. If the Review Board
recommends an award under this section, the The Secretary shall issue the
award make a final award determination within 15 days following the date of
the Review Board’s recommendation.
Sixth:
By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be
Sec. 7 to read as follows:
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
Committee of Conference Report
H. 952
An act relating to capital construction and State bonding budget adjustment
TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:
The Committee of Conference to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon House Bill entitled:
H.952. An act relating to capital construction and State bonding budget
adjustment
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the Senate recede from its proposal of amendment and that
the bill be amended by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in
lieu thereof the following:


--- Page 40 ---
- 3952 -
* * * Legislative Intent * * *
Sec. 1. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 1 is amended to read:
Sec. 1. LEGISLATIVE INTENT
(a)
It is the intent of the General Assembly that of the $111,965,288.44
$123,564,624.67
authorized
in
Secs.
2–16
this
act,
not
more
than
$61,969,761.44 $61,449,761.44 shall be appropriated in the first year of the
biennium, and the remainder shall be appropriated in the second year.
* * *
* * * Bond-Funded Project Authorizations * * *
Sec. 2. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 2 is amended to read:
Sec. 2. STATE BUILDINGS
* * *
(b) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026:
* * *
(2) Statewide, three-acre parcel stormwater compliance: $1,500,000.00
$500,000.00
* * *
(c) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027:
(1) Statewide, major maintenance:
$8,500,000.00 $8,683,413.18
* * *
(4) Statewide, three-acre parcel stormwater compliance: $1,100,000.00
[Repealed.]
* * *
(7)
Montpelier, State House replacement of historic interior finishes:
$50,000.00
(8)
Montpelier, 120 State Street HVAC – steam lines interior
renovation:
$2,000,000.00 $1,000,000.00
* * *
(12)
Montpelier, State House entryway upgrades, design documents,
including comprehensive parking plan and delivery truck access, and second-
floor egress design:
$1,300,000.00


--- Page 41 ---
- 3953 -
(d)
On or before January 15, 2027, the Sergeant at Arms and the
Commissioner of Buildings and General Services shall report to the House
Committee on Corrections and Institutions and the Senate Committee on
Institutions on the status of the designs for the State House entryway and
second-floor egress under subdivision (c)(12) of this section and on estimates
for construction costs.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$13,726,680.44 $12,726,680.44
Appropriation – FY 2027
$15,925,000.00 $15,308,413.18
Total Appropriation – Section 2
$28,951,680.44 $28,035,093.62
Sec. 3. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 3 is amended to read:
Sec. 3. HUMAN SERVICES
(a) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026 to the Department of
Buildings and General Services for the Agency of Human Services for the
following projects:
* * *
(4)
St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex (NECC) door
control system replacements:
$1,000,000.00 $1,480,000.00
* * *
(b) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Department of
Buildings and General Services for the Agency of Human Services for the
following projects:
(1)
Statewide, planning, design, and construction for HVAC system
upgrades at correctional facilities:
$1,000,000.00 $9,426,254.21
* * *
(4)
St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex (NECC) door
control system replacements:
$2,600,000.00 $2,920,000.00
(5)
Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility (NSCF) sprinkler
system upgrades:
$500,000.00 [Repealed.]
(6)
Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility (NSCF) boiler
replacement:
$700,000.00
(7)
Maintenance, replacement, and renovations at the Chittenden
Regional Correctional Facility or other correctional facilities utilized in
response
to
overcrowding
for
the
incarcerated
women’s
population:
$598,850.00


--- Page 42 ---
- 3954 -
* * *
Appropriation – FY 2026
$8,225,000.00 $8,705,000.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$4,800,000.00 $14,345,104.21
Total Appropriation – Section 3
$13,025,000.00 $23,050,104.21
Sec. 4. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 4 is amended to read:
Sec. 4. COMMERCE AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
* * *
(b)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Commerce and Community Development for the following projects:
(1) Major maintenance at statewide historic sites:
$550,000.00
$750,000.00
* * *
(3) Roadside historic site markers:
$25,000.00 $45,000.00
* * *
Appropriation – FY 2027
$621,000.00 $841,000.00
Total Appropriation – Section 4
$1,667,000.00 $1,887,000.00
Sec. 5. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 6 is amended to read:
Sec. 6. VETERANS’ HOME
(a)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026 to the Vermont
Veterans’ Home for the following projects:
(1) Replacement of air handlers:
$710,000.00
(2) Expansion of laundry facilities:
$340,000.00
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer of the Vermont Veterans’ Home is
authorized to transfer any unexpended project balances between the amounts
appropriated in subdivisions (a)(1)–(2) of this section and the amount
appropriated in subsection (c) of this section.
(c) The sum of $1,250,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Vermont
Veterans’ Home for sewage system and elevator upgrades.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$1,050,000.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$1,250,000.00
Total Appropriation – Section 6
$1,050,000.00 $2,300,000.00


--- Page 43 ---
- 3955 -
Sec. 6. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 10 is amended to read:
Sec. 10. CLEAN WATER INITIATIVES
* * *
(e) The sum of $10,000,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency
of Natural Resources for the Department of Environmental Conservation for
clean water implementation projects. [Repealed.]
(f) In FY 2026 and FY 2027, any agency that receives funding from this
section shall consult with the State Treasurer to ensure that the projects are
capital eligible.
(g) The sum of $1,500,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Agriculture, Food and Markets for water quality grants and contracts.
(h)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Natural Resources for the Department of Environmental Conservation for the
following projects:
(1) Clean Water State Revolving Fund:
$1,577,600.00
(2) Municipal pollution control grants:
$3,922,400.00
(i) The sum of $200,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Natural Resources for the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation for
water quality improvements to forest access roads.
(j)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Vermont
Housing and Conservation Board for the following projects:
(1) Agricultural water quality projects:
$800,000.00
(2) Land conservation and water quality projects:
$2,000,000.00
* * *
Sec. 7. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 14 is amended to read:
Sec. 14. JUDICIARY
* * *
(c)
The sum of $1,720,818.84 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the
Department of Buildings and General Services for the Judiciary for the
Newport Courthouse project.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$5,075,910.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$1,720,818.84
Total Appropriation – Section 14
$5,075,910.00 $6,796,728.84


--- Page 44 ---
- 3956 -
* * * Reallocations * * *
Sec. 8. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 17 is amended to read:
Sec. 17. REALLOCATION AND REVERSION OF FUNDS; TRANSFER
OF FUNDS
(a) The following sums are reallocated appropriated to the Department of
Buildings and General Services from prior capital appropriations are
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act:
* * *
(12) of the amount appropriated in 2017 Acts and Resolves No. 84,
Sec. 13(b)(2), as added by 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 190, Sec. 10 (CJTC
East Cottage):
$43,190.08
(13) of the amounts appropriated in 2019 Acts and Resolves No. 42,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$1,624,241.12
(14) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 2(b) (various projects):
$393,854.32
(15) of the amount appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 3(a)(2) (women’s correctional facilities):
$97,890.12
(16) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$618,000.00
(17) of the amounts appropriated in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69,
Sec. 2(b) (various projects):
$350,420.67
(18) of the amounts appropriated in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$150,000.00
(19) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 3(b)(1) (women’s correctional facilities, replacement):
$868,850.00
(b)
The following sums appropriated to the Agency of Commerce and
Community Development from prior capital appropriations are reallocated to
defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act:
* * *
(3) of the amount appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50, Sec.
4(a)(4) (Unmarked Burial Fund):
$31,320.70
* * *
(h)
Of the amount appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the


--- Page 45 ---
- 3957 -
Vermont Veterans’ Home in 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 113, Sec.
B.1103(a)(7) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 18(d)(7)
(design for the renovation of the Brandon and Cardinal units), $1,500,000.00
is reallocated reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this
act.
(i) Of the amount appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure subaccount
of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the Department of
Buildings and General Services in 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 113, Sec.
B.1103(a)(9) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(d)(10) (111 State Street; renovation of the stack area), $200,000.00 is
reallocated reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this act.
* * *
(n) Of the amount appropriated to the Vermont Veterans’ Home in 2023
Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 15(b)(2) (elevator upgrade), $500,000.00 is
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 6 of this act.
(o) Of the amount appropriated to the Enhanced 911 Board in 2017 Acts
and Resolves No. 84, Sec. 6(b)(9), as added by 2018 Acts and Resolves No.
190, Sec. 5 (Enhanced 911 Compliance Grants Program), $63,413.15 is
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act.
(p) Of the amount appropriated to the Agency of Natural Resources for
the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation in 2019 Acts and Resolves
No. 42, Sec. 11(j), as added by 2020 Acts and Resolves No. 139, Sec. 7
(State-owned forest and recreational access points), $0.03 is reallocated to
defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act.
(q)
The following sums appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the
Department of Buildings and General Services in 2023 Acts and Resolves
No. 78, Sec. B.1105(a) are reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec.
19 of this act:
(1) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(1) (planning, reuse, and contingency):
$119,114.60
(2) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(6) (120 State Street renovation):
$1,000,000.00
(3) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(8) (CJTC administration building and West Cottage):
$450,000.00
(4) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(10) (DCF short-term stabilization facility):
$372,557.10


--- Page 46 ---
- 3958 -
(5) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(11) (Washington County Superior Courthouse in Barre):
$750,000.00
(6) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(13) (planning and design of the Rutland Field Station):
$250,000.00
(7) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(15) (EV charging stations):
$995,040.00
(r)
Of the amount
appropriated from the Capital
Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the
Department of Buildings and General Services in 2024 Acts and Resolves
No. 113, Sec. B.1103(a)(3) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No.
69, Sec. 18(d)(3), as amended by 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 162, Sec. 11
(120
State
Street
renovation),
$1,500,000.00
is
reverted
to
defray
expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this act.
Bonded Dollars
$5,074,938.48 $9,816,118.67
Cash
$1,700,000.00 $7,136,711.70
Total Reallocations, Reversions, and Transfers – Section 17
$6,774,938.48
$16,952,830.37
* * * Cash-Funded Project Authorizations * * *
Sec. 9. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 19 is amended to read:
Sec. 19. FY 2026 AND 2027; CAPITAL PROJECTS; FY 2026 AND FY
2027 APPROPRIATIONS ACT ACTS; INTENT;
AUTHORIZATIONS
* * *
(b)
Intent.
It is the intent of the General Assembly to authorize certain
capital projects eligible for funding by 32 V.S.A. § 1001b in this act but
appropriate the funds for these projects in the FY 2026 and FY 2027
Appropriations Act Acts. It is also the intent of the General Assembly that the
FY 2026 and FY 2027 Appropriations Act appropriate Acts transfer funds to
the Fund established in 32 V.S.A. § 1001b for projects in FY 2026 and FY
2027.
(c)
Authorizations; Capital Infrastructure subaccount.
In FY 2026,
spending authority for the following capital projects from the Capital
Infrastructure subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential
Investments are authorized as follows:
* * *


--- Page 47 ---
- 3959 -
(7) to the Vermont Veterans’ Home for the design and construction of
the American unit and sprinkler system installation:
$1,500,000.00
* * *
(f)
Authorizations; Capital Infrastructure subaccount.
In FY 2027,
spending authority for the following capital projects from the Capital
Infrastructure subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential
Investments are authorized as follows:
(1) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for statewide
major maintenance:
$1,781,173.60
(2) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for statewide
physical security enhancements:
$225,000.00
(3)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Asa
Bloomer roof replacement:
$3,600,000.00
(4)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Rutland
multimodal garage renovation:
$900,000.00
(5) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Burlington,
32 Cherry St. parking garage repairs:
$3,000,000.00
(6) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for HVAC upgrades at correctional facilities:
$1,050,000.00
(7) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for statewide correctional facilities security upgrades:
$225,000.00
(8) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex
(NECC) door control system replacements:
$2,700,000.00
(9) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for the Northern State Correctional Facility boiler
replacement:
$1,000,000.00
(10)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility
sprinkler system upgrades:
$500,000.00
(11)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for maintenance, replacement, and renovations at
the Chittenden Regional Correctional Facility or other correctional facilities


--- Page 48 ---
- 3960 -
utilized in response to overcrowding for the incarcerated women’s population:
$500,000.00
(12)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for the Department for Children and Families’
youth short-term stabilization facility:
$772,557.10
(13)
to the Department of Environmental Conservation for the State
match for federal Drinking Water State Revolving Fund:
$2,498,000.00
(14) to the Department of Environmental Conservation for Waterbury
Dam Penstock project cost overruns:
$150,000.00
(15)
to the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation for park
infrastructure and rehabilitation, improvement, and three-acre rule compliance:
$400,000.00
(16) to the Department of Fish and Wildlife for dam maintenance and
safety planning:
$200,000.00
(17)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Department of Public Safety for an Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) facility:
$500,000.00
(18)
to the Judiciary for the Essex County Courthouse connector
project:
$500,000.00
(19)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Judiciary
for
renovations
at
the
White
River
Junction
courthouse:
$1,600,000.00
(20) to the Vermont Historical Society for the replacement of a climate
control unit:
$566,724.00
(21)
to the Department of Corrections to work with the Agency of
Digital Services to develop a plan for providing network connectivity in State
correctional facilities that modernizes processes and reduces reliance on paper;
improves staff efficiency and addresses workforce challenges, such as staff
retention; supports real-time data-driven operations; lays the foundation for
future capabilities, such as wearable technology and mobile device–supported
operations; and ensures secure, compliance connectivity in key facilities, each
as outlined in the Business Transformation Project Recommendations Report
issued by the Agency:
$750,000.00
* * * Policy * * *
* * * Department of Environmental Conservation * * *
Sec. 10. 24 V.S.A. § 4752 is amended to read:


--- Page 49 ---
- 3961 -
§ 4752. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(21)
“Eligible mobile home park water system” means a privately
owned nonprofit community type system that serves a majority of the users
who reside in a nonprofit- or resident-owned mobile home park registered with
the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to
10 V.S.A. § 6254.
Sec. 11. 24 V.S.A. § 4771 is amended to read:
§ 4771. CONDITIONS OF LOAN AGREEMENT
(a) VEDA may make loans to applicants on behalf of the State for one or
more of the purposes set forth in subsection 4770(b) of this title. Each such
loan shall be made subject to the following conditions:
(1) The loan shall be evidenced by a note payable over a term not to
exceed 30 years.
Repayment shall commence not later than one year after
completion of the project for which loan funds have been applied.
(2)
The loan shall be secured with assets as determined by VEDA.
VEDA may also require that the applicant assign all or a portion of the water
system revenues as security for the loan, or may require the establishment of a
reserve fund.
(3) The loan recipient shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
repayment of the loan which may include a pledge of revenue from user
charges, tap fees, development charges, and pledges of accounts receivable and
the proceeds therefrom.
(4)
The rate of interest charged for loans shall be set by the State
Treasurer, taking into consideration prevailing borrowing rates available to
similarly situated applicants from private lenders and administrative fees to be
charged to applicants.
VEDA, in cooperation with the Secretary, shall
periodically recommend interest rates to be set by the State Treasurer which
that are the lowest practicable rates consistent with maintaining the long-term
integrity of the Fund. The interest rate set by the State Treasurer may be less
than the prevailing borrowing rates available to similarly situated applicants
from private lenders, but not less than zero percent.
(5)(A)
Notwithstanding subdivision subdivisions (1) and (4) of this
subsection (a), a privately owned nonprofit community type system may
qualify for a 40-year loan term at an interest rate, plus administrative fee, to be
established by the Secretary of Natural Resources that shall be not more than


--- Page 50 ---
- 3962 -
three percent or less than minus three percent, provided that the applicant
system meets the income level and annual household user cost requirements of
a disadvantaged municipality as defined in subdivision 4752(12)(A) of this
title or is an eligible mobile home park water system, and at least 80 percent of
the residential units served by the water system is continuously occupied by
local residents and at least 80 percent of the water produced is for residential
use.
(B) [Repealed.]
(C)
If the Secretary determines that a privately owned nonprofit
community type system qualifies for a loan under this subdivision (5), the
Secretary shall certify the loan term and interest rate to VEDA. In no instance
shall the Except as applied to an eligible mobile home park water system, the
Secretary shall not certify an annual interest rate, plus an administrative fee, be
pursuant to this subdivision (C) that is less than is necessary to achieve an
annual household user cost equal to one percent of the median household
income of the applicant water system computed in the same manner as
prescribed in subdivision 4763c(b)(2) of this title.
* * *
* * * Division for Historic Preservation * * *
Sec. 12. 22 V.S.A. § 725 is amended to read:
§ 725. ACCEPTANCE AND SOLICITATION OF FUNDS OR GIFTS FOR
HISTORIC SITES AND VERMONT ARCHAEOLOGY HERITAGE
CENTER
(a) With Notwithstanding 3 V.S.A. § 1203g and with the approval of the
Secretary of Administration, the State Historic Preservation Officer may
accept and solicit grants, gifts, donations, loans, or other things of value on
behalf of the Division for Historic Preservation for use by the Division for
Historic Preservation in establishing and maintaining displays and exhibits at
any historic site and at the Vermont Archaeology Heritage Center, or restoring
any historic site maintained and developed under section 723 of this chapter.
(b) In any request for approval of solicitation under this section, the State
Historic Preservation Officer shall specify the project and fundraising goal for
which the Officer is undertaking fundraising.
* * * Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation * * *
Sec. 13. DEPARTMENT OF FORESTS, PARKS AND RECREATION;
LITTLE RIVER STATE PARK LEASE


--- Page 51 ---
- 3963 -
(a)
Notwithstanding
29
V.S.A.
§ 166,
in
fiscal
year
2027,
the
Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation is authorized to enter into a
long-term lease with Vermont Huts Association Ltd. for the use of a structure
at Little River State Park and the land on which the structure is located,
provided that the lease specifies:
(1) the term of 20 years with an option to renew for an additional two
10-year terms at the Commissioner’s discretion;
(2) the fee or fee formula to be used to compensate the State;
(3) conditions on the use of the structure, including the boundaries of
the land and structure to be leased;
(4)
that Vermont Huts Association Ltd. shall secure insurance and be
subject to an indemnification clause consistent with Attachment C, Standard
State Provisions for Contracts and Grants, approved by the Agency of
Administration in Administrative Bulletin 3.5;
(5) provisions for the termination of the lease;
(6)
requirements for the operation and maintenance of the leased
structure and lands, including responsibility for the costs of maintenance;
(7) how any conflict between the parties shall be resolved; and
(8)
that a contract between the Department and Vermont Huts
Association Ltd., executed in accordance with the Standard State Provisions
for Contracts and Grants set forth in Administrative Bulletin 3.5 of the Agency
of Administration, be required for the relocation and reconstruction of the
Goodell House located at Little River State Park.
(b) The Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation shall report to the
Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and Institutions and Senate
Committee on Institutions with a report on the status of the lease negotiations
under this section on or before August 15, 2026, and immediately prior to
execution of any related lease agreement and shall provide to the Chairs the
lease agreement promptly following execution.
* * * Department of Buildings and General Services * * *
Sec. 14. SOUTHERN STATE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY; PROPERTY
TRANSFER
(a) Notwithstanding 29 V.S.A. § 166, the Commissioner of Buildings and
General Services is authorized to transfer to the Town of Springfield a portion
of
the
Southern
State
Correctional
Facility
property
consisting
of
approximately 22.93 acres to be used for municipal purposes, including


--- Page 52 ---
- 3964 -
economic development as an industrial parcel, provided that the Commissioner
may transfer the property only if:
(1) the State obtains any State or local zoning or subdivision approvals
required for transfer;
(2) the State and the Town negotiate updates to the 1999 Agreement to:
(A)
establish responsibility for the maintenance and upkeep of the
access road and the water and sewer service lines for the Facility and the
transferred property; and
(B) mitigate impacts to the Springfield community; and
(3) the transferred property does not include any brownfields.
(b)
If the Town has not begun developing the transferred property for
purposes of economic development by the end of March 2030, the Town shall
consult with the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services to examine
alternative uses for the property.
Sec. 15. REPEALS
(a) 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 162, Sec. 23 (Southern State Correctional
Facility; transfer of parcel) is repealed.
(b)
Sec. 14 of this act (Southern State Correctional Facility; property
transfer) is repealed on July 1, 2030.
Sec. 16. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 22(a) is amended to read:
(a)(1)
110 State Street.
Notwithstanding 29 V.S.A. § 166(b), the The
Commissioner of Buildings and General Services is authorized to sell the
property located at 110 State Street in the City of Montpelier, provided that the
Commissioner includes in any contract for sale appropriate interior and
exterior protective covenants developed in consultation with the Division for
Historic Preservation and the Vermont
Advisory
Council
on
Historic
Preservation pursuant to 22 V.S.A. § 743. The Commissioner shall first offer
in writing to the City the right to purchase the property.
(1) The City’s preferential right to purchase the property authorized in
this subsection shall terminate unless the City submits a written notification to
the Commissioner of its intent to purchase the property on or before October
15, 2023.
(2)
If the City submits a notification of its intent to purchase the
property pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection, the City shall submit a
written offer to the Commissioner not later than June 1, 2024. In the event the
City fails to submit a written offer by June 1, 2024, then the City’s preferential


--- Page 53 ---
- 3965 -
right to purchase the property shall terminate and the Commissioner is
authorized to sell the property to another party The Commissioner of Buildings
and General Services shall provide to the Chairs of the House Committee on
Corrections and Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions copies
of any related request for proposal and any executed contract for sale of 110
State Street in the City of Montpelier promptly after each becomes available.
(3)
It is the intent of the General Assembly to ensure that 110 State
Street in the City of Montpelier is sold at fair market value; that historic
attributes of the property are protected for future generations; that the Chairs
of the House Committee on Corrections and Institutions and the Senate
Committee on Institutions receive timely notice of status updates on the
disposition of the property; and that the initial purchaser of the property
provides notification of any intent to sell to the Secretary of Administration
and the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services, who shall then
promptly notify the Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and
Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions of the potential sale.
Sec. 17. CHITTENDEN REGIONAL CORRECTIONAL FACILITY
Among the uses of the funds appropriated in 2025 Acts and Resolves No.
33, Secs. 3(b)(7) and 19(f)(11), as amended by this act, the Department of
Buildings and General Services shall prioritize repairs of bathrooms, showers,
and flooring at the Chittenden Regional Correctional Facility.
If the
Department of Buildings and General Services applies funds to other
correctional facilities to respond to overcrowding at the Chittenden Regional
Correctional Facility, the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services and
the Commissioner of Corrections shall provide an overview of the use of funds
to the Joint Legislative Justice Oversight Committee at the Committee’s
regularly scheduled meetings in calendar year 2026.
* * * Agency of Human Services * * *
Sec. 18. HIGH-END SYSTEM FACILITIES FOR YOUTH
(a)
At the August, October, and December 2026 meetings of the Joint
Legislative Justice Oversight Committee, the Departments for Children and
Families and of Buildings and General Services shall report on their plan to
develop the Green Mountain Youth Facility.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, before the
Departments for Children and Families and of Buildings and General Services
approve design documents for construction and prior to approval of the lease
for the facility, the Department of Buildings and General Services shall submit
their approved design to the House Committees on Corrections and Institutions


--- Page 54 ---
- 3966 -
and on Human Services and the Senate Committees on Institutions and on
Health and Welfare.
At the same time, the Department for Children and
Families shall submit a draft operating budget.
* * * Department of Corrections and Agency of Digital Services * * *
Sec. 19. REPORT; NETWORK CONNECTIVITY IN STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES
The Commissioner of Corrections and the State Chief Information Officer
of Digital Services, in consultation with the Commissioner of Buildings and
General Services, shall report to the Joint Legislative Justice Oversight
Committee at each scheduled meeting of the Committee in calendar year 2026
on the plan for providing network connectivity in State correctional facilities
authorized pursuant to 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 19(f)(21),
including any prioritization and schedule.
* * * Stormwater Utilities * * *
Sec. 20. 24 V.S.A. § 4414(9) is amended to read:
(9) Stormwater management and control. Any municipality may adopt
bylaws to implement stormwater management and control consistent with the
program developed by the Secretary of Natural Resources pursuant to 10
V.S.A. § 1264. The creation of a regional stormwater utility under statute or
rules of the Agency of Natural Resources shall not prevent a municipality from
regulating stormwater under this subdivision, including adoption by the
municipality
of
a
bylaw
establishing
a
municipal
stormwater
utility.
Municipalities shall not charge an impervious surface fee or other stormwater
fee under this subdivision or under other provisions of this title on property
regulated under the Required Agricultural Practices for discharges of
agricultural waste or agricultural nonpoint source pollution.
Sec. 21. 24 V.S.A. § 3626 is added to read:
§ 3626. MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY TO AUTHORIZE AND OPERATE
STORMWATER UTILITY
The creation of a regional stormwater utility under statute or rules of the
Agency of Natural Resources shall not prevent a municipality from regulating
stormwater under this chapter, including adoption by the municipality of a
bylaw authorizing the operation of a municipal stormwater utility that
establishes an assessment on an equivalent residential unit or impervious
surface.


--- Page 55 ---
- 3967 -
* * * General Assembly * * *
Sec. 22. STATE HOUSE; ENTRYWAY DESIGN; SPECIAL COMMITTEE
(a)
A special committee consisting of the Joint Legislative Management
Committee and the Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and
Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions (special committee) is
hereby established.
The special committee is authorized to meet to review,
approve, or recommend alterations to the State House entryway design at a
regularly scheduled Joint Legislative Management Committee meeting.
(b) The special committee shall be entitled to per diem and expenses as
provided in 2 V.S.A. § 23.
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 23. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on passage.
SEN. WENDY K. HARRISON
SEN. ROBERT PLUNKETT
SEN. JOHN BENSON
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. ALICE M. EMMONS
REP. MARY A. MORRISSEY
REP. BRIAN MINIER
Committee on the part of the House
For Informational Purposes
HOUSE CHAMBER 2027 SEATING REQUESTS
Pursuant to House Rule 5, a current Representative who will return to the
House for the 2027-28 Biennium has a right to retain their current seat in the
Chamber or to change seats by selecting a seat that will be vacant in 2027. No
steps are needed for a Representative to retain their current seat. Here are the
steps for Representatives to request a change of seat for the 2027-28
Biennium:
1.
Requests for changes in House seating will be accepted by the House
Clerk’s Office beginning at 8:00 A.M. on the first Monday after the
House adjourns sine die.
2. Call or email your request to Nigel Hicks-Tibbles at:
nigel.hicks-tibbles@vtleg.gov.


--- Page 56 ---
- 3968 -
3. Include in your request the seat number you would like to request; or you
may ask Nigel what seats are available and they will be able to provide a
list of vacant seats. A request for information will not be treated as a seat-
change request for purposes of reserving a seat against other requests.
4. Requests for vacant seats will be accepted in the order received.
5.
A vacant seat is one that was held at the end of the 2026 session by a
member who has publicly announced they do not plan to run or has not
filed to run for reelection to the House, who is not so reelected, or who has
changed seats for 2027-28.
6. The list of vacant seats will change over the course of the adjournment and
members are welcome to request a change more than once as different
seats become available.
CROSSOVER DATES
The Joint Rules Committee established the following crossover dates:
(1)
All Senate/House bills must be reported out of the last committee of
reference (including the Committees on Appropriations and Finance/Ways and
Means, except as provided below in (2) and the exceptions listed below) on or
before Friday, March 13, 2026, and filed with the Secretary/Clerk so they
may be placed on the Calendar for Notice the next legislative day – Committee
bills must be voted out of Committee by Friday, March 13, 2026.
(2) All Senate/House bills referred pursuant to Senate Rule 31 or House Rule
35(a) to the Committees on Appropriations and Finance/Ways and Means must
be reported out by the last of those committees on or before Friday, March
20, 2026, and filed with the Secretary/Clerk so they may be placed on the
Calendar for Notice the next legislative day.
Exceptions to the foregoing deadlines include the major money bills (the
general Appropriations bill (“The Big Bill”), the Transportation Capital
bill, the Capital Construction bill, and the Fee/Revenue bills).
HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION (H.C.R.) PROCESS
Joint Rules 16a–16d provide the procedure for the General Assembly to adopt
concurrent resolutions pursuant to the Consent Calendar. Here are the steps
for Representatives to introduce an H.C.R. and to have it ceremonially read
during a House session:


--- Page 57 ---
- 3969 -
1. Meet with or email Legislative Counselor Michael Chernick regarding your
H.C.R. draft request.
Come prepared with an idea and any relevant
supporting documents.
2. Have a date in mind if you want a ceremonial reading.
You should
communicate with Counselor Chernick at least two weeks prior to the
week you want your ceremonial reading to happen.
3. Counselor Chernick will draft your H.C.R., and Resolutions Editor and
Coordinator Jill Pralle will edit it.
Upon completion of this process, a
paper or electronic copy will be released to you.
If a paper copy is
released to you, a sponsor sign-out sheet will also be included.
4. Please submit a final sponsor list (with all sponsors listed) to Counselor
Chernick by paper or electronically, but not both.
5. The final list of sponsors needs to be submitted, by email or on a paper
sign-out sheet, to Counselor Chernick not later than 1:00 p.m. the
Wednesday of the week prior to the H.C.R.’s appearance on the Consent
Calendar.
6. The Office of Legislative Counsel will then send your H.C.R. to the House
Clerk’s Office for incorporation into the Consent Calendar and House
Calendar Addendum for the following week.
7. The week that your H.C.R. is on the Consent Calendar, any presentation
copies that you requested will be mailed or available for pickup on Friday,
after the House and Senate adjourn, which is when your H.C.R. is adopted
pursuant to Joint Rules.
8. Your H.C.R. can be ceremonially read during a House session once it is
adopted, meaning it must have been adopted through the House Consent
Calendar not later than the week prior to your requested ceremonial
reading date. Contact Second Assistant Clerk Courtney Reckord to confirm
your requested ceremonial reading date.
9. A Note: If there is a specific date, week, or month that your resolution
must be read (e.g. to designate a specified period of time or to recognize a
group on a certain day), please inform Second Assistant Clerk Courtney
Reckord as soon as possible, so she can reserve that date in advance. You
do not need to have the resolution drafted by then.
JOINT FISCAL COMMITTEE NOTICES
Grants and Positions that have been submitted to the Joint Fiscal Committee
by the Administration, under 32 V.S.A. §5(b)(3)(D):


--- Page 58 ---
- 3970 -
JFO #3276: Twelve (12) limited-service positions to the Agency of
Human Services, various departments, to staff the Rural Health
Transformation Initiative. The Rural Health Transformation grant, JFO
#3272 was approved at the Joint Fiscal Committee meeting on
February 6, 2026. All limited-service positions are expected to be
funded through 9/30/2031. [Received March 31, 2026]
JFO #3277: $36,000.00 to the Vermont Legislature, Sergeant at Arms
office from the National Conference of State Legislatures. The grant
will extend up to $500.00 to each member of the General Assembly to
secure their homes. Funds would be available once as a reimbursement
during the lawmaker’s service for expenses incurred after June 1, 2026.
[Received April 14, 2026]
JFO #3278: $690,050.00 to the Department of Public Service from the
State and Community Energy Programs, U.S. Department of Energy.
Funds for a revolving loan program (Municipal Energy Revolving
Fund) to help VT communities meet state energy goals. The funds will
be managed by the Building and General Services department via a
Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Public
Service. [Received May 11, 2026]
JFO #3279: $160,000.00 land donation to the Agency of Natural
Resources, Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation from the
Robert M. Burley Trust. The land is 102-acre donation in Elmore, VT
to extend the Elmore State Park.. PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) will
be $1,123.71 annually. [Received May 11, 2026]
JFO
#3280: $20,000.00
to
the
Vermont
Truth
and
Reconciliation
Commission (VTRC) from Patricia Fontaine, private donor. Funds will
hire consultants to fulfill the mission of the VTRC in their pursuit of
community-centered justice and holistic healing. [Received May 11,
2026]
JFO #3281: $867,972.00 to the Agency of Commerce and Community
Development, Department of Housing and Community Development
from the Department of the Interior, National Park Service. Funds to
fix drainage and foundation issues at the Theron Boyd State Historic
Site and to prepare a full historic structure report. A State match of
$27,750.00 is required for this grant and is covered by the major
maintenance funds allocated to ACCD, Historic Preservation Division
in the State Capital Construction Bill for fiscal year 2028. [Received
May 11, 2026]


--- Page 59 ---
- 3971 -
