STATE: Vermont
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/Documents/2026/Docs/JOURNAL/sj260527.pdf?20260527065804
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/33/019/01999

--- Page 1 ---
1603
Printed on 100% Recycled Paper
Journal of the Senate
________________
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
The Senate was called to order by the President.
Devotional Exercises
A moment of silence was observed in lieu of devotions.
Message from the House No. 80
A message was received from the House of Representatives by Ms.
Courtney Reckord, its Second Assistant Clerk, as follows:
Mr. President:
I am directed to inform the Senate that:
The House has considered bills originating in the Senate of the following
titles:
S. 71. An act relating to consumer data privacy and online surveillance.
S. 193.
An act relating to establishing a forensic facility for certain
criminal justice-involved persons.
And has passed the same in concurrence with proposals of amendment in
the adoption of which the concurrence of the Senate is requested.
The House has considered Senate proposals of amendment to the following
House bills:
H. 757.
An act relating to manufactured homes and limited equity
cooperatives.
H. 932. An act relating to the regulation of forestry under Act 250.
H. 937. An act relating to miscellaneous judiciary procedures.
And has severally concurred therein.
The House has considered the report of the Committee of Conference upon
the disagreeing votes of the two Houses on House bill of the following title:
H. 660. An act relating to fiscal year 2027 Opioid Abatement Special Fund
appropriations.
And has adopted the same on its part.


--- Page 2 ---
1604
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
The House has considered joint resolution originating in the Senate of the
following title:
J.R.S. 54.
Joint resolution relating to weekend adjounment on May 22,
2026.
And has adopted the same in concurrence.
Bills Passed in Concurrence with Proposal of Amendment
House bills of the following titles were read the third time and passed in
concurrence with proposal of amendment:
H. 542. An act relating to terminating testing of schools in Vermont for
polychlorinated biphenyls.
H. 710. An act relating to defining electricity generating facilities.
Third Reading Ordered
H. 294.
Senator Major, for the Committee on Institutions, to which was referred
House bill entitled:
An act relating to telecommunications services and wages in correctional
facilities.
Reported that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
Thereupon, the bill was read the second time by title only pursuant to
Rule 43, and third reading of the bill was ordered.
Proposal of Amendment; Proposal of Amendment Withdrawn; Third
Reading Ordered
H. 567.
Senator White, for the Committee on Government Operations, to which was
referred House bill entitled:
An act relating to unclaimed property, State retirement systems, and capital
debt.
Reported that the bill ought to pass in concurrence.
Senator Hardy, for the Committee on Finance, to which the bill was
referred, reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House to
amend the bill by adding a reader assistance heading and a new section to be
Sec. 24a to read as follows:


--- Page 3 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1605
* * * Vermont Higher Education Endowment Trust Fund Report * * *
Sec. 24a. VERMONT HIGHER EDUCATION ENDOWMENT TRUST
FUND REPORT
(a)
On or before January 15, 2027, the State Treasurer shall submit a
written report to the House Committees on Education and on Ways and Means
and the Senate Committees on Education and on Finance regarding the
Vermont Higher Education Endowment Trust Fund.
(b) As part of the report, the Treasurer shall provide recommendations on
the following items:
(1)
mechanisms, including requiring consultation with the Vermont
Higher Education Endowment Trust Fund Council, for ensuring appropriate
fiduciary oversight of the use of the Fund to ensure that the endowed funds,
including principal and interest earnings, are available for the intended purpose
of providing scholarships to Vermont students;
(2) how to expand or modify the membership of the Council to include
student representatives of the recipient institutions of higher education; and
(3)
how to expand the scope of scholarship awards, including award
amounts, types of degrees covered, and institutions of higher education
included in the scholarship program.
(c)
In developing the report required by this section, the Treasurer shall
consult with the Council and the respective student government associations of
the University of Vermont, Community College of Vermont, and other
institutions within the Vermont State Colleges System.
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposal of
amendment.
Senator Perchlik, for the Committee on Appropriations to which the bill
was referred, reported recommending that the bill ought to pass in concurrence
with proposal of amendment.
Thereupon, Senator Hardy requested and was granted leave to withdraw the
proposal of amendment of the Committee on Finance.
Thereupon, the bill was read the second time by title only pursuant to
Rule 43, and third reading of the bill was ordered.


--- Page 4 ---
1606
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
Committee of Conference Appointed
H. 955.
An act relating to next steps in transforming Vermont’s education system.
Was taken up.
Pursuant to the request of the House, the President
announced the appointment of
Senator Bongartz
Senator Hardy
Senator Mattos
as members of the Committee of Conference on the part of the Senate to
consider the disagreeing votes of the two Houses.
Proposal of Amendment; Proposal of Amendment Substituted; Third
Reading Refused
H. 772.
Senator Hashim, for the Committee on Judiciary, to which was referred
House bill entitled:
An act relating to residential rental agreements, eviction procedures, and the
creation of the positive rental payment credit reporting pilot program.
Reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House to amend the
bill by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:
* * * Residential Rental Agreements * * *
Sec. 1. 9 V.S.A. chapter 137 is amended to read:
CHAPTER 137. RESIDENTIAL RENTAL AGREEMENTS
Subchapter 1. General
§ 4451. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(11)
“Domestic abuse” has the same meaning as abuse in 15 V.S.A.
§ 1101(1).
(12) “Protected tenant” has the same meaning as in section 4471 of this
title.
(13) “Sexual assault” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131(5).
(14) “Stalking” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131(6).


--- Page 5 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1607
* * *
Subchapter 2. Residential Rental Agreements
§ 4455. TENANT OBLIGATIONS; PAYMENT OF RENT; RENT
INCREASES
(a) Rent is payable without demand or notice at the time and place agreed
upon by the parties.
(b) An increase in rent shall take effect on the first day of the rental period
following no less than 60 days’ actual notice to the tenant.
(c)
A landlord shall not increase rent more than once in any 12-month
period. This subsection shall not prohibit a landlord from increasing rent after
the purchase of a dwelling unit subject to the requirements of this section.
* * *
§ 4456a. RESIDENTIAL RENTAL APPLICATION
(a)(1) A landlord or a landlord’s agent shall not charge an application fee
to any individual in order to apply to enter into a rental agreement for a
residential dwelling unit. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit a
person from charging a fee to a person in order to apply to rent commercial or
nonresidential property.
(2) As used in this section, an “application fee” means any fee, charge,
or cost to submit a residential rental application including any third-party
processing payment.
(3) A landlord or a landlord’s agent may charge actual costs to conduct
a background or credit check of an applicant, unless the tenant or applicant
provides a current credit report as part of the application, in which case the
landlord or landlord’s agent shall not charge for a credit check. For purposes
of this subdivision, a “current credit report” means a report dated within 90
days prior to the date of the residential rental application.
(4)
If charging for a background or credit check on an applicant, the
landlord or the landlord’s agent shall provide a copy of the results of the
background or credit check to the applicant.
* * *
(c)
A person who violates this section commits an unfair practice in
commerce in violation of section 2453 of this title.
* * *


--- Page 6 ---
1608
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
§ 4461. SECURITY DEPOSITS
(a)(1) A security deposit is any advance, deposit, or prepaid rent, however
named, which is refundable to the tenant at the termination or expiration of the
tenancy. The function of a security deposit is to secure the performance of a
tenant’s obligations to pay rent and to maintain a dwelling unit.
(2)
A landlord shall not charge for or receive a security deposit
exceeding an amount equal to two months’ rent, in addition to any rent for the
first month paid on or before initial occupancy.
(3) Subject to the requirements of this section, a landlord may charge a
separate security deposit in addition to the amount authorized in subdivision
(2) of this subsection as a condition for allowing the tenant to have a pet or
pets during the rental period. A landlord shall not charge any amount under
this subdivision for any animal that mitigates a disability.
* * *
(c)
A landlord shall return the security deposit along with a written
statement itemizing any deductions to a tenant within 14 days from after the
date on which the landlord discovers that the tenant vacated or abandoned the
dwelling unit or the date the tenant vacated the dwelling unit, provided the
landlord received notice from the tenant of that date.
In the case of the
seasonal occupancy and rental of a dwelling unit not intended as a primary
residence, the security deposit and written statement shall be returned within
60 days.
* * *
(g)(1) A town or municipality may adopt an ordinance governing security
deposits on dwellings.
The ordinance shall be supplemental to and not
inconsistent with the minimum protections of the provisions of this section.
(2) The ordinance may shall not limit how a security deposit is held.
(3) The ordinance may:
(A) Limit the amount a landlord may charge for a security deposit to
an amount less than two month’s rent as provided in subdivision (a)(2) of this
section.
(B) authorize Authorize the payment of interest on a security deposit.
(C)
The ordinance may provide Provide that a housing board of
review constituted pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 5005 may hear and decide disputes
related to security deposits upon request for a hearing by a landlord or tenant.
The board’s actions shall be reviewable under 24 V.S.A. § 5006.


--- Page 7 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1609
* * *
§ 4465. RETALIATORY CONDUCT PROHIBITED
(a)
A landlord of a residential dwelling unit may not retaliate by
establishing or changing terms of a rental agreement or by bringing or
threatening to bring an action against a tenant who:
(1)
has
complained
to
a
governmental
agency
charged
with
responsibility for enforcement of a building, housing, or health regulation of a
violation applicable to the premises materially affecting health and safety;
(2) has complained to the landlord of a violation of this chapter; or
(3) has organized or become a member of a tenant’s union or similar
organization;
(4) has taken any legal action authorized by law against the landlord; or
(5) has contacted law enforcement to respond to an instance of domestic
abuse.
(b) If the landlord acts in violation of this section, the tenant is entitled to
recover damages and reasonable attorney’s fees and has a defense in any
retaliatory action for possession.
(c) If a landlord serves notice of termination of tenancy on any grounds
other than for nonpayment of rent within 90 days after notice by any municipal
or State governmental entity that the premises are not in compliance with
applicable health or safety regulations, there is a rebuttable presumption that
any termination by the landlord is in retaliation for the tenant having reported
the noncompliance.
* * *
§ 4467. TERMINATION OF TENANCY; NOTICE
* * *
(b) Termination for breach of rental agreement.
* * *
(3)
A landlord shall not terminate a rental agreement under this
subsection based on a person seeking medical assistance for a drug overdose,
being the subject of a good faith request for medical assistance, or being at the
scene of a drug overdose or within close proximity of the scene of a drug
overdose as provided in 18 V.S.A. § 4254 and evidence obtained from the
good faith request for medical assistance for a drug overdose shall not be used
in an ejectment action brought under 12 V.S.A. chapter 169.


--- Page 8 ---
1610
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(4)(A) A landlord shall not terminate a rental agreement of a protected
tenant under this subsection (b) because of an incident or pattern of domestic
abuse, sexual assault, or stalking.
(B) A protected tenant may request to bifurcate the rental agreement
as authorized in section 4472a of this title.
* * *
Sec. 1a. 9 V.S.A. § 4472a is added to read:
§ 4472a. RIGHT TO BIFURCATION OF A RENTAL AGREEMENT
(a)(1)
Notwithstanding a contrary provision of a rental agreement or of
subchapter 2 of this chapter, a landlord may approve a protected tenant’s
written request to bifurcate a rental agreement in order to eject, remove, or
terminate a rental agreement with any individual who is a tenant or lawful
occupant of the dwelling unit that engages in abuse, sexual assault, or stalking,
against the protected tenant without ejecting, removing, or terminating the
rental agreement with the protected tenant.
(2) If the protected tenant includes with a written request to bifurcate
the rental agreement a copy of a court order that requires the perpetrator to
leave the premises, a landlord shall bifurcate a rental agreement in order to
eject, remove, or terminate a rental agreement to any individual who is a
tenant or lawful occupant of the dwelling unit that engages in abuse, sexual
assault, or stalking against the protected tenant without ejecting, removing, or
terminating the rental agreement with the protected tenant.
(3)
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require that a
protected tenant submit documentation of the status of the protected tenant as a
victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking in order to request to
bifurcate a rental agreement under this section.
(b)(1)
In the event the bifurcation and removal of an individual under
subsection (a) of this section results in the protected tenant being unable to
cover the rent of the dwelling unit, the landlord shall provide the protected
tenant with a reasonable opportunity to locate additional tenants or to
otherwise find new housing.
(2) A reasonable opportunity under this section shall be not less than 90
days.


--- Page 9 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1611
* * * Ejectment * * *
Sec. 2. [Deleted.]
Sec. 3. 12 V.S.A. chapter 169 is amended to read:
CHAPTER 169. EJECTMENT
* * *
Subchapter 3. Superior Court Ejectment
* * *
§ 4853a. PAYMENT OF RENT INTO COURT; EXPEDITED HEARING
[Subsection (a) as amended by 2007, Act No. 125 (Adj. Sess.), § 1.]
(a) In any action against a tenant for possession, the landlord may file a
motion for an order that the tenant pay rent into court. The motion may be
filed and served with the complaint or at any time after the complaint has been
filed. The motion shall be accompanied by affidavit setting forth particular
facts in support of the motion.
[Subsection (a) as amended by 2007, Act No. 176 (Adj. Sess.), § 51.]
(a) In any action against a tenant for possession brought in accordance with
this chapter, 9 V.S.A. chapter 137, 10 V.S.A. chapter 153, or 11 V.S.A. chapter
14, the landlord may file a motion for an order that the tenant pay rent into
court. The motion may be filed and served with the complaint or at any time
after the complaint has been filed.
The motion shall be accompanied by
affidavit setting forth particular facts in support of the motion.
* * *
§ 4854a. PROPERTY OF TENANT REMAINING ON PREMISES AFTER
EVICTION
(a)
A landlord may dispose of any personal property remaining in a
dwelling unit or leased premises without notice or liability to the tenant or
owner of the personal property:
(1) 15 days after a writ of possession is served pursuant to this chapter
or immediately upon the landlord being legally restored to possession of the
dwelling unit or leased premises pursuant to this chapter, whichever is later; or
(2) in the case of an eviction brought pursuant to 10 V.S.A. chapter 153,
40 days after a writ of possession issued for failure to pay rent into court
pursuant to subsection 4853a(h) of this title is served or upon the landlord
being legally restored to possession of the leased premises by a writ of
possession issued for failure to pay rent into court pursuant to subsection
4853a(h) of this title, whichever is later.


--- Page 10 ---
1612
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(b)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if the court stays the
execution of a writ of possession issued pursuant to this chapter, then a
landlord may dispose of any personal property remaining in a dwelling unit or
leased premises without notice or liability to the tenant or owner of the
personal property one day immediately after the landlord is legally restored to
possession of the dwelling unit or leased premises.
* * *
* * * Trespass * * *
Sec. 4. PURPOSE
The purpose of Sec. 5 of this act is to override the Vermont Supreme
Court’s decision in State v. Dixon, 169 Vt. 15 (1999), and allow the landlord
of a dwelling unit to obtain a no trespass order prohibiting the tenant’s invitees
or licensees from entering the dwelling unit’s common areas if the invitee or
licensee subject to the order has violated the terms of the lease agreement.
Sec. 5. 13 V.S.A. § 3705 is amended to read:
§ 3705. UNLAWFUL TRESPASS
(a)(1)
A person shall be imprisoned for not more than three months or
fined not more than $500.00, or both, if, without legal authority or the consent
of the person in lawful possession, the person enters or remains on any land or
in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
* * *
(g)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section or any provision of
law to the contrary, a landlord of a dwelling unit may cause to be served an
order against trespass that prohibits a tenant’s invitees or licensees from
trespassing in the dwelling unit or any of the dwelling unit’s common areas if:
(A) the tenant responsible for the invitee or licensee consents to the
order;
(B) the invitee or licensee subject to the order has violated the terms
of the dwelling unit’s lease agreement;
(C) the invitee or licensee has violated a State or federal law while
on the premises of the dwelling unit; or
(D)
the invitee or licensee has previously been ejected from a
dwelling unit on the premises under 12 V.S.A. chapter 169 due to a
termination of a rental agreement under 9 V.S.A. § 4467(b).


--- Page 11 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1613
(2) Consent required under subdivision (1)(A) of this subsection shall be
provided on an individualized basis. It shall be against the public policy of
this State for a tenant to provide blanket consent under subdivision (1)(A) for
all invitees or licensees, and any provision of a rental agreement that provides
blanket consent from a tenant shall be void and unenforceable.
(3)
An order against trespass served under this subsection shall be
enforceable for one year from the date of the order being served. The order
may be renewed for subsequent one-year periods if the landlord causes to be
served a new order.
(4) As used in this subsection:
(A) “Dwelling unit” means a building or the part of a building that is
used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons who
maintain a household.
(B)
“Premises” means a dwelling unit; its appurtenances and the
building; and the grounds, areas, and facilities held out for the use of tenants
generally or whose use is promised to the tenant.
(C)
“Tenant” means a person entitled under a rental agreement to
occupy a residential dwelling unit to the exclusion of others.
Sec. 6. [Deleted.]
* * * Positive Rental Payment Pilot Program * * *
Sec. 7. POSITIVE RENTAL PAYMENT CREDIT REPORTING PILOT
(a) Definitions. As used in this section:
(1) “Contractor” means the third-party vendor that the State Treasurer’s
Office contracts with to administer the pilot program described in this section.
(2) “Dwelling unit” has the same meaning as in 9 V.S.A. § 4451(3).
(3)
“Participant property owner” means a landlord that has agreed in
writing to participate in the pilot program and has satisfied the requirements
described in subsection (c) of this section.
(4) “Participant tenant” means a tenant who has elected to participate in
the pilot program and whose landlord is a participant property owner.
(5)
“Rental payment information” means information concerning a
participant tenant’s timely payment of rent. “Rent payment information” does
not include information concerning a participant tenant’s payment or
nonpayment of fees.
(b) Pilot program creation.


--- Page 12 ---
1614
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(1) The State Treasurer shall create and implement a two-year positive
rental payment credit reporting pilot program to facilitate the reporting of rent
payment information from participant tenants to consumer reporting agencies.
(2) On or before May 1, 2027, the State Treasurer shall contract with a
third party to administer a positive rental payment credit reporting pilot
program and facilitate the transmission of rent reporting information from a
participant property owner to a consumer reporting agency.
The third-party
administrator shall be required to:
(A) enter into an agreement with one or more participant property
owners in the State in accordance with the requirements of this section for
participation in the pilot program;
(B) ensure that information to a credit reporting agency includes only
rent payment information after the date on which the participant tenant elected
to participate in the pilot program;
(C)
develop and implement a process for removal of participant
tenants for failure to comply with program requirements, including failure to
make timely rental payments;
(D) establish a standard form for a participant tenant to use to elect to
participate or cease participation in the pilot program, which shall include a
statement that the tenant’s participation is voluntary and that a participant may
cease participating in the pilot program at any time and for any reason by
providing notice to the participant’s landlord and that the tenant may be
removed from the program for failure to comply with program requirements,
including failure to make timely rental payments; and
(E)
offer an optional financial education course for participant
tenants.
(c) Pilot program agreements. A participant property owner shall agree in
writing:
(1)
to participate in the pilot program for the duration of the pilot
program;
(2)
not to charge a participant tenant for participation in the pilot
program;
(3) to comply with the requirements of the pilot program;
(4) to provide information as required by the State Treasurer concerning
the implementation of the pilot program; and
(5)
to assist in the recruitment of tenants to participate in the pilot
program.


--- Page 13 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1615
(d) Pilot program participants. On or before June 1, 2027, the contractor
shall, in coordination with the State Treasurer, recruit not more than 10
participant property owners and, to the extent practicable, not fewer than 100
participant tenants to participate in the pilot program.
The contractor shall
seek to select participant tenants from populations that are underserved and
underrepresented in home ownership. The contractor shall also seek to recruit
participant landlords who offer:
(1) a variety of types of dwelling units for rent, including dwelling units
of various sizes;
(2)
dwelling units for rent that are located in geographically diverse
areas of the State; and
(3) at least five dwelling units for rent.
(e) Termination. The State Treasurer may terminate the pilot program at
any time in the Treasurer’s sole discretion or terminate participation of a
participant property owner for failure to comply with the requirements of the
pilot program.
(f) Reports.
(1) On or before November 1, 2028, the State Treasurer shall submit an
interim report to the House Committee on General and Housing and the Senate
Committee
on
Economic
Development,
Housing
and
General
Affairs
regarding the findings of the pilot program. The report shall include:
(A)
the number of participant tenants, including information
regarding the demographic makeup of participant tenants, such as race,
ethnicity, gender, income, and age, as voluntarily provided by the participant;
(B) the number of participant tenants who ceased participating in the
pilot program voluntarily;
(C) the number of participant tenants who were removed from the
pilot program and the reasons why;
(D)
a breakdown of costs of administering the pilot program,
including the monthly costs associated with rent reporting;
(E)
a description of challenges faced by the participant property
owners and participant tenants during the pilot program;
(F)
an analysis of the outcomes of rent reporting on participant
tenants’ credit scores; and
(G)
recommendations for legislative action, including proposed
statutory language and an appropriation for associated costs.


--- Page 14 ---
1616
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(2) On or before November 1, 2029, the State Treasurer shall submit a
final report to the House Committee on General and Housing and the Senate
Committee
on
Economic
Development,
Housing
and
General
Affairs
regarding the findings of the pilot program. The report shall include an update
to the information required in the interim report.
(g)
Appropriation contingency.
The duty to implement this section is
contingent upon an appropriation of funds in fiscal year 2027 from the General
Fund for the specific purposes described in this section.
* * * Residential Security Deposit Transition Period * * *
Sec. 8. SECURITY DEPOSIT; TRANSITION PERIOD
Notwithstanding 9 V.S.A. § 4461(a), a landlord may maintain a security
deposit that exceeds an amount equal to two months’ rent, provided that the
residential rental agreement was in effect prior to July 1, 2026.
Upon the
termination of the rental agreement, the landlord shall return the security
deposit in compliance with the requirements of 9 V.S.A. § 4461.
* * * Technical Training * * *
Sec. 9. LANDLORD AND TENANT EDUCATION AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
(a) The Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity (CVOEO) shall
provide education and technical assistance to Vermont landlords and tenants
regarding their rights, obligations, and remedies for statutory violations under
Vermont rental statutes.
(b)(1) Training for tenants shall include training under the Preferred Renter
Certification Program or its future equivalent.
(2) For landlords, CVOEO shall develop a curriculum to address any
resource and information gaps to increase positive interactions with tenants
and improve renter household stability.
(c) Assistance under this program shall include in-person, virtual, and on-
demand options.
(d) The duty to implement this section is contingent upon an appropriation
of funds in fiscal year 2027 from the General Fund for the specific purposes
described in this section.
Sec. 10. [Deleted.]


--- Page 15 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1617
* * * Statewide Housing Court Report * * *
Sec. 11. HOUSING COURT STUDY; REPORT
(a) On or before January 31, 2027, the Court administrator shall submit to
the General Assembly a report on the feasibility of implementing a dedicated
docket in Vermont for handling all matters governing residential rental
agreements under 9 V.S.A. chapter 137 and ejectment actions under 12 V.S.A.
chapter 169. The report shall include an examination of:
(1) the financial costs of implementing a dedicated housing docket in
Vermont;
(2) the workforce impact of a dedicated housing docket, including:
(A) the number of judges and staff necessary to:
(i)
resolve all ejectment actions statewide within 90 days
following the filing of the complaint;
(ii)
meet the timelines outlined in 12 V.S.A. chapter 169 for
expedited hearings; and
(iii) resolve ejectment actions brought due to the termination of a
residential rental agreement under 9 V.S.A. § 4467(b)(2) within 21 days from
the date of filing of the complaint; and
(B)
the impact on other court staff with the implementation of a
dedicated housing docket;
(3)
whether current State facilities have the capacity to support a
dedicated housing docket statewide and whether new or expanded facilities
would be required or whether current technical capacities within the Judiciary
can handle the virtual statewide implementation of a centralized housing
docket; and
(4)
any other matter deemed relevant to the issue of implementing a
statewide housing docket.
(b) The report shall include information on the legal issues to consider in
requiring an expedited hearing for ejectment actions brought due to a
termination of a residential rental agreement under 9 V.S.A. § 4467(b)(2),
including:
(1) how the court could determine that a tenant is an ongoing threat to
the health and safety of others if that were to be a condition upon which an
expedited ejectment hearing would be allowed;


--- Page 16 ---
1618
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(2)
whether there are procedural issues with beginning the 21-day
timeline for an expedited ejectment hearing with the filing of the complaint
versus the service of the answer;
(3) how the court would determine that damage to the dwelling unit is a
threat to the health and safety of others; and
(4) whether there are procedural issues with shortening the timeframes
for the termination of a residential rental agreement.
(c) In developing the report, the Court administrator shall work to balance
the needs of interested parties in making its recommendations, including a
balancing of the rights of tenants, the landlord’s property interests, and the
safety of other tenants and their neighbors.
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 12. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposal of
amendment.
Senator Clarkson, for the Committee on Economic Development, Housing
and General Affairs, to which the bill was referred, reported recommending
that the Senate propose to the House that the bill be amended as recommended
by the Committee on Judiciary with further proposals of amendment as
follows:
First:
By striking out Sec. 1, 9 V.S.A. chapter 137, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 1 to read as follows:
Sec. 1. [Deleted.]
Second:
By striking out Sec. 1a, 9 V.S.A. § 4472a, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 1a to read as follows:
Sec. 1a. [Deleted.]
Third: By striking out Sec. 3, 12 V.S.A. chapter 169, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 3 to read as follows:
Sec. 3. [Deleted.]
Fourth: In Sec. 5, 13 V.S.A. § 3705, by striking out subdivision (g)(1)(B)
in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subdivision (g)(1)(B) to read
as follows:
(B)
the invitee or licensee subject to the order has engaged in a
pattern of violating the terms of the dwelling unit’s lease agreement;


--- Page 17 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1619
Fifth: In Sec. 5, 13 V.S.A. § 3705, in subdivision (g)(1)(D), by inserting
“(2)” after “4467(b)”
Sixth: In Sec. 5, 13 V.S.A. § 3705, by inserting a new subdivision to be
subdivision (g)(4)(B) to read as follows and by relettering the remaining
subdivisions to be alphabetically correct:
(B) “Pattern of violating” means two or more acts over a period of
time, however short, in which a person violates the terms of the lease
agreement.
Seventh: By striking out Secs. 7, positive rental payment credit reporting
pilot; 8, security deposit; transition period; and 9, landlord and tenant
education and technical assistance program, in their entireties and inserting in
lieu thereof new Secs. 7, 8, and 9 to read as follows:
Sec. 7. [Deleted.]
Sec. 8. [Deleted.]
Sec. 9. [Deleted.]
Eighth: By striking out Sec. 11, housing court study; report, in its entirety
and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 11 to read as follows:
Sec. 11. HOUSING COURT STUDY; REPORT
(a) On or before January 31, 2027, the Court Administrator shall submit to
the General Assembly a report on the feasibility of implementing a dedicated
docket in Vermont for handling all matters governing residential rental
agreements under 9 V.S.A. chapter 137 and ejectment actions under 12 V.S.A.
chapter 169. The report shall include an examination of:
(1)
the financial costs of implementing a dedicated residential rental
docket in Vermont;
(2)
the workforce impact of a dedicated residential rental docket,
including:
(A) the number of judges and staff necessary to:
(i)
resolve all ejectment actions statewide within 90 days
following the filing of the complaint;
(ii)
meet the timelines outlined in 12 V.S.A. chapter 169 for
expedited hearings; and
(iii) resolve ejectment actions brought due to the termination of a
residential rental agreement under 9 V.S.A. § 4467(b)(2) within 21 days after
the date of filing of the complaint; and


--- Page 18 ---
1620
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(B)
the impact on other court staff with the implementation of a
dedicated residential rental docket;
(3)
whether current State facilities have the capacity to support a
dedicated residential rental docket statewide and whether new or expanded
facilities would be required or whether current technical capacities within the
Judiciary can handle the virtual statewide implementation of a centralized
residential rental docket;
(4) procedural impacts for the timeline suggested in subdivision (2) of
this subsection, including information about the impacts of beginning the 21-
day timeline for an expedited ejectment hearing with the filing of the
complaint versus the service of the answer;
(5)
whether to include other legal matters beyond residential rental
agreements within the dedicated docket; and
(6)
any other matter deemed relevant to the issue of implementing a
statewide residential rental docket.
(b)
In developing the report, the Court Administrator shall consult with
interested parties, including landlords, tenants, Vermont Legal Aid, and others
deemed necessary by the Court Administrator.
and that after passage the title of the bill be amended to read:
“An act
relating to residential rental agreements, ejectments, and unlawful trespass”
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposals of
amendment.
Senator Norris, for the Committee on Appropriations, to which the bill was
referred, reported recommending that the bill ought to pass in concurrence
with proposal of amendment as recommended by the Committee on Judiciary,
with further proposals of amendment by the Committee on Economic
Development, Housing and General Affairs.
Thereupon, the bill was read the second time by title only pursuant to
Rule 43, and pending the question, Shall the recommendation of proposal of
amendment of the Committee on Judiciary be amended as recommended by
the Committee on Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs?,
Senator Hashim, moved to substitute proposals of amendment for the
proposals of amendment of the Committee on Economic Development,
Housing and General Affairs as follows:


--- Page 19 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1621
First:
By striking out Sec. 1, 9 V.S.A. chapter 137, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 1 to read as follows:
Sec. 1. 9 V.S.A. chapter 137 is amended to read:
CHAPTER 137. RESIDENTIAL RENTAL AGREEMENTS
Subchapter 1. General
§ 4451. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(11)
“Domestic abuse” has the same meaning as abuse in 15 V.S.A.
§ 1101(1).
(12) “Protected tenant” has the same meaning as in section 4471 of this
title.
(13) “Sexual assault” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131(5).
(14) “Stalking” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131(6).
* * *
Subchapter 2. Residential Rental Agreements
* * *
§ 4467. TERMINATION OF TENANCY; NOTICE
* * *
(b) Termination for breach of rental agreement.
* * *
(3)
A landlord shall not terminate a rental agreement under this
subsection based on a person seeking medical assistance for a drug overdose,
being the subject of a good faith request for medical assistance, or being at the
scene of a drug overdose or within close proximity of the scene of a drug
overdose as provided in 18 V.S.A. § 4254, and evidence obtained from the
good faith request for medical assistance for a drug overdose shall not be used
in an ejectment action brought under 12 V.S.A. chapter 169.
(4)(A) A landlord shall not terminate a rental agreement of a protected
tenant under this subsection (b) because of an incident or pattern of domestic
abuse, sexual assault, or stalking.
(B) A protected tenant may request to bifurcate the rental agreement
as authorized in section 4472a of this title.


--- Page 20 ---
1622
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
* * *
Second: By striking out Sec. 3, 12 V.S.A. chapter 169, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 3 to read as follows:
Sec. 3. [Deleted.]
Third: In Sec. 5, 13 V.S.A. § 3705, in subdivision (g)(1)(D), by inserting
“(2)” after “4467(b)”
Fourth:
By striking out Secs. 7, positive rental payment credit reporting
pilot; 8, security deposit; transition period; and 9, landlord and tenant
education and technical assistance program, in their entireties and inserting in
lieu thereof new Secs. 7, 8, and 9 to read as follows:
Sec. 7. [Deleted.]
Sec. 8. [Deleted.]
Sec. 9. [Deleted.]
Fifth: By striking out Sec. 11, housing court study; report, in its entirety
and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 11 to read as follows:
Sec. 11. HOUSING COURT STUDY; REPORT
(a) On or before January 31, 2027, the Court Administrator shall submit to
the General Assembly a report on the feasibility of implementing a dedicated
docket in Vermont for handling all matters governing residential rental
agreements under 9 V.S.A. chapter 137 and ejectment actions under 12 V.S.A.
chapter 169. The report shall include an examination of:
(1)
the financial costs of implementing a dedicated residential rental
docket in Vermont;
(2)
the workforce impact of a dedicated residential rental docket,
including:
(A) the number of judges and staff necessary to:
(i)
resolve all ejectment actions statewide within 90 days
following the filing of the complaint;
(ii)
meet the timelines outlined in 12 V.S.A. chapter 169 for
expedited hearings; and
(iii) resolve ejectment actions brought due to the termination of a
residential rental agreement under 9 V.S.A. § 4467(b)(2) within 21 days after
the date of filing of the complaint; and
(B)
the impact on other court staff with the implementation of a
dedicated residential rental docket;


--- Page 21 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1623
(3)
whether current State facilities have the capacity to support a
dedicated residential rental docket statewide and whether new or expanded
facilities would be required or whether current technical capacities within the
Judiciary can handle the virtual statewide implementation of a centralized
residential rental docket;
(4) procedural impacts for the timeline suggested in subdivision (2) of
this subsection, including information about the impacts of beginning the 21-
day timeline for an expedited ejectment hearing with the filing of the
complaint versus the service of the answer;
(5)
whether to include other legal matters beyond residential rental
agreements within the dedicated docket; and
(6)
any other matter deemed relevant to the issue of implementing a
statewide residential rental docket.
(b)
In developing the report, the Court Administrator shall consult with
interested parties, including landlords, tenants, Vermont Legal Aid, and others
deemed necessary by the Court Administrator.
and that after passage the title of the bill be amended to read:
“An act
relating to residential rental agreements, ejectments, and unlawful trespass.”
Which was agreed to, on a roll call, Yeas 17, Nays 12.
Senator Weeks having demanded the yeas and nays, they were taken and are
as follows:
Roll Call
Those Senators who voted in the affirmative were:
Baruth, Bongartz,
Chittenden, Clarkson, Cummings, Gulick, Hardy, Harrison, Hashim, Lyons,
Major, Perchlik, Plunkett, Ram Hinsdale, Vyhovsky, Watson, White.
Those Senators who voted in the negative were: Beck, Benson, Brennan,
Brock, Collamore, Heffernan, Ingalls, Morley, Norris, Weeks, Westman,
Williams.
The Senator absent and not voting was: Mattos.
Thereupon, pending the question, Shall the proposal of amendment of the
Committee on Judiciary be amended as recommended by the Committee on
Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs, as substituted?,
Senators Ram Hinsdale and Chittenden moved to amend the proposal of
amendment of the Committee on Economic Development, Housing and
General Affairs, as substituted in the first instance of amendment by adding a
new subdivision to be subdivision (b)(5) to 9 VSA § 4667 to read as follows:


--- Page 22 ---
1624
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(b) Termination for breach of rental agreement.
* * *
(5)(A) A landlord shall not terminate a tenancy under subdivision (1) of
this subsection if the actions giving reason for the termination are directly
related to a tenant’s disability, until the landlord has engaged in an interactive
process with the tenant to discuss reasonable accommodations that would
enable the tenant with a disability to remain housed.
If the landlord
subsequently sends notice of termination due in whole or in part to disability-
related actions of the tenant, the notice of termination shall describe efforts to
grant reasonable accommodations.
(B)
Notwithstanding subdivision (A) of this subdivision (5), a
landlord may terminate a tenancy due to criminal activity, illegal drug activity,
or acts of violence under subdivision (2) of this subsection (b) if, despite the
tenant’s disability, the tenant’s continued occupation of the lands or tenements
is threatening the health or safety of other residents, the landlord or the
landlord’s agent, or neighbors.
Which was disagreed to.
Thereupon, the pending question, Shall the proposal of amendment of the
Committee on Judiciary be amended as recommended by the Committee on
Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs, as substituted?, was
decided in the affirmative.
Thereupon, the proposal of amendment recommended by the Committee on
Judiciary, as amended, was agreed to and third reading of the bill was refused,
on a roll call, Yeas 15, Nays 15.
Senator Ram Hinsdale having demanded the yeas and nays, they were taken
and are as follows:
Roll Call
Those Senators who voted in the affirmative were:
Baruth, Bongartz,
Clarkson, Collamore, Cummings, Gulick, Hardy, Harrison, Hashim, Lyons,
Major, Perchlik, Plunkett, Watson, White.
Those Senators who voted in the negative were: Beck, Benson, Brennan,
Brock, Chittenden, Heffernan, Ingalls, Mattos, Morley, Norris, Ram Hinsdale,
Vyhovsky, Weeks, Westman, Williams.
There being a tie, the Secretary took the casting vote of the President, who
voted “Nay”.


--- Page 23 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1625
Message from the House No. 81
A message was received from the House of Representatives by Ms.
Courtney Reckord, its Second Assistant Clerk, as follows:
Mr. President:
I am directed to inform the Senate that:
The House has considered a bill originating in the Senate of the following
title:
S. 313.
An act relating to transforming Vermont’s career technical
education system.
And has passed the same in concurrence with proposal of amendment in the
adoption of which the concurrence of the Senate is requested.
Adjournment
On motion of Senator Baruth, the Senate adjourned until two o’clock and
thirty minutes in the afternoon.
Called to Order
The Senate was called to order by the President.
Rules Suspended; Action Messaged
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended, and the action on
the following bills was ordered messaged to the House forthwith:
H. 542. An act relating to terminating testing of schools in Vermont for
polychlorinated biphenyls.
H. 710. An act relating to defining electricity generating facilities.
Proposals of Amendment; Third Reading Ordered
H. 935.
Senator Collamore, for the Committee on Government Operations, to which
was referred House bill entitled:
An act relating to emergency management.
Reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House to amend the
bill by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:
* * * Ready Response Grant Program * * *
Sec. 1. 20 V.S.A. § 52 is added to read:
§ 52. READY RESPONSE GRANT PROGRAM


--- Page 24 ---
1626
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(a) As used in this section, “ready response” means the provision of short-
term food and bottled water resources, including logistical support and
transportation, to individuals in Vermont who do not have adequate access to
food and water at agreed upon times when the Division of Emergency
Management seeks resource assistance from a grantee or responds to an all-
hazards event or state of emergency.
(b) There is created the Ready Response Grant Program to be managed and
administered by the Division of Emergency Management. The Division shall
award an annual grant to an eligible food bank to source, store, and distribute
shelf-stable, ready-to-eat foods and bottled water at times and in types and
quantities per a written memorandum of agreement with the Division.
(c) The grant shall be in an amount sufficient to compensate the grantee for
all costs incurred to procure and stage food and water in agreed upon
quantities and locations, the costs of cycling the food and water at agreed-upon
intervals, the value of distribution center storage capacity, the value of
operational capacity to stage materials in anticipation of need, and the costs of
distribution whenever the Division seeks resource assistance from the grantee
or responds to an all-hazards event or state of emergency.
As used in this
subsection, the “value of operational capacity” includes leased storage space,
delivery vehicles, drivers, warehouse selectors, and other operational costs.
(d)
Food and water supplies subject to a grant and under the grantee’s
control shall be rotated and replenished according to established industry
guidelines and best practices. Rotated food and water shall be redistributed in
an equitable manner by the grantee through Vermont’s charitable food system
to Vermont nonprofit organizations qualifying under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)
that provide food to individuals in Vermont.
(e) To the extent that the Division requests services from the grantee that
are not covered by the Grant Program, a separate agreement shall be reached
between the Division and the grantee.
* * * Technical Rescue Grant Program * * *
Sec. 2. 20 V.S.A. § 53 is added to read:
§ 53. TECHNICAL RESCUE GRANT PROGRAM
(a)
Creation of Program.
There is created the Technical Rescue Grant
Program to assist Vermont fire departments, emergency medical services
agencies, and technical rescue agencies with the improvement of operational
readiness and investment in specialized equipment, personal protective gear,
and training.
The Program shall be administered by the Urban Search and
Rescue (USAR) Team program manager.


--- Page 25 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1627
(b) Duties of USAR Team program manager. The USAR Team program
manager, in addition to other duties described elsewhere in law, shall review
grant applications, award grants, and otherwise administer the Program.
(c) Eligibility. Fire departments, emergency medical services agencies, and
technical rescue agencies operating within Vermont shall be eligible for
Program grants. Grant applicants shall demonstrate their use, planned use, or
need for technical rescue operations within their service area.
All grant
applicants shall submit their application on a form adopted by the USAR Team
program manager. The USAR Team program manager shall prioritize grant
awards for applicants that:
(1)
maintain a memorandum of understanding with the Division of
Emergency Management for swiftwater rescue; or
(2)
function as regional technical rescue teams providing services in
multiple jurisdictions.
(d) Grant award limitations. The maximum award to any applicant in a
given fiscal year shall be not more than $5,000.00.
The Program shall not
award more than $25,000.00 in total grants in a given fiscal year.
(e) Application review and scoring. The USAR Team program manager
shall adopt procedures governing application submission, forms, review,
scoring, and recommendation of awards.
The procedures for application
scoring shall include alignment with the Program priorities in subsection (a) of
this section, operational need, geographic service area, feasibility of the
proposed project, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability of the applicant’s
services.
(f) Grant recipient reporting; report. Each grant recipient shall submit to
the USAR Team program manager a final expenditure report, proof of
purchase or training completion, and a narrative description of how the grant
improved the recipient’s technical rescue capacity.
Annually on or before
November 15, the USAR Team program manager shall submit a written report
to the House Committee on Government Operations and Military Affairs and
the Senate Committee on Government Operations summarizing grant awards,
outcomes, and Program recommendations.
(g)
Rulemaking.
The USAR Team program manager may adopt rules
pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 as needed to implement this section.
Sec. 2a. 20 V.S.A. § 50 is amended to read:
§ 50. URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAM
* * *


--- Page 26 ---
1628
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(b)
The USAR Team program manager shall perform all the following
duties:
* * *
(5) negotiate and enter into agreements with municipalities, municipal
agencies that maintain swiftwater rescue teams, State-recognized swiftwater
rescue teams, or other technical rescue teams to provide expert assistance and
services to the USAR Team when necessary; and
(6) coordinate USAR Team participation in search and rescue operations
under chapter 112 of this title; and
(7) administer the Technical Rescue Grant Program pursuant to section
53 of this title.
* * *
* * * Disability Inclusion in Emergency Planning * * *
Sec. 3. 20 V.S.A. § 2 is amended to read:
§ 2. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(13)
“Whole community” means the collective of residents; emergency
management practitioners; organizational and community leaders; and local,
State, and federal government officials.
Sec. 4. 20 V.S.A. § 6 is amended to read:
§ 6. LOCAL AND REGIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT
* * *
(c)(1)
Each local organization shall develop and maintain an all-hazards
emergency management plan in accordance with the State Emergency
Management Plan and guidance set forth by the Division of Emergency
Management.
* * *
(3) The Division shall advise municipalities that when a shelter is sited
under a local emergency plan, the municipality should work with the Agency
of
Human
Services,
the
American Red
Cross,
and
community-based
emergency or charitable food providers whole community, to assess the
facility and the facility’s potential operations, including the characteristics of
the surrounding area during an all-hazards event, multiple routes of travel and
possible hazards that could prevent access to the shelter, and the need for
immediate and sustained access to food and water for individuals using the
shelter.


--- Page 27 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1629
(4) The Division, in coordination with the Agency of Human Services
whole community, shall advise municipalities, upon completion of a local
emergency management plan, on how to conduct training and exercises
pertaining to sheltering.
* * *
Sec. 5. 20 V.S.A. § 32 is amended to read:
§ 32. LOCAL EMERGENCY PLANNING COMMITTEES; CREATION;
DUTIES
* * *
(b) All local emergency planning committees shall include representatives
from the following: fire departments; local and regional emergency medical
services; local, county, and State law enforcement; other entities providing
first responders or emergency management personnel; organizations serving
vulnerable populations; media; transportation; regional planning commissions;
hospitals; industry; the Vermont National Guard; the Department of Health’s
district office; and an animal rescue organization, and may include any other
interested public or private individual or organization.
Where the local
emergency planning committee represents more than one region of the State,
the Commission shall appoint representatives that are geographically diverse.
(c) A local emergency planning committee shall perform all the following
duties:
(1) Carry out all the requirements of a committee pursuant to EPCRA,
including preparing a local emergency planning committee plan.
The plan
shall be coordinated with the State emergency management plan Emergency
Management Plan and may be expanded to address all-hazards identified in the
State emergency management plan Emergency Management Plan.
A local
emergency
planning
committee
shall
coordinate
with
disability-led
organizations throughout all phases of emergency management planning. At a
minimum, the local emergency planning committee plan shall include the
following:
* * *
Sec. 6. [Deleted.]
* * * Town Forest Fire Wardens * * *
Sec. 7. 10 V.S.A. § 2603 is amended to read:
§ 2603. POWERS AND DUTIES: COMMISSIONER
* * *


--- Page 28 ---
1630
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(d)
The Commissioner or designee shall be the State fire warden Forest
Fire Warden and may act as, and in place of, the town forest fire warden of any
municipality, unorganized town, or gore as provided under subchapter 4 of this
chapter.
The Commissioner or designee, as State Forest Fire Warden, shall
have the authority to:
(1) exercise the authority and duties of a town forest fire warden as set
forth in subchapter 4 of this chapter;
(2) appoint special forest fire wardens and delegate the authority of the
State Forest Fire Warden to the special forest fire wardens;
(3)
take command and control of a forest fire in any municipality or
unorganized town or gore in the State when, in the State Forest Fire Warden’s
determination, it is necessary to do so, or when resources are needed in
addition to local resources, and act as incident commander over all other fire
officials;
(4) delegate the authority to act as incident commander of a forest fire
to another person or entity;
(5)
serve on the Northeastern Forest Fire Protection Commission or
designate
an
appropriate
Department
representative
to
serve
in
the
Commissioner’s place, pursuant to section 2503 of this title, and exercise all
related authority;
(6)
enter into mutual aid compact agreements as set forth in section
2462 of this title; and
(7)
issue a ban on kindling fires on lands owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources when necessary.
* * *
Sec. 8. 10 V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapter 4 is amended to read:
Subchapter 4. Forest Fires and Fire Prevention
§ 2641. TOWN FOREST FIRE WARDENS; APPOINTMENT AND
REMOVAL
(a) Upon approval by the selectboard and acceptance by the appointee, the
Commissioner shall appoint a town forest fire warden for a term of five years
or until a successor is appointed. A town forest fire warden may be
reappointed for successive five-year terms by the Commissioner or until a
successor is approved by the selectboard and appointed by the Commissioner.
The warden may be removed for cause at any time by the Commissioner with
the approval of the selectboard. A warden shall comply with training
requirements established by the Commissioner.
The chief of the fire


--- Page 29 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1631
department, fire district, or private fire department with the jurisdictional
responsibility to respond to a municipality, unorganized town, or gore is
designated as the town forest fire warden and shall have the authority to
exercise all the powers and duties of a town forest fire warden.
For any
municipality, unorganized town, or gore that is covered by two or more fire
districts or has two or more fire departments, the municipality, unorganized
town, or gore shall designate one fire chief as town forest fire warden and shall
notify the Commissioner of the designation.
(b) The Commissioner may appoint a forest fire warden for an unorganized
town or gore, who shall serve for a term of five years or until a successor is
appointed. An appointed forest fire warden for an unorganized town or gore
may be reappointed for successive five-year terms by the Commissioner until
the Commissioner appoints and the unorganized town or gore approves a
successor. The warden may be removed for cause at any time by the
Commissioner with the approval of the unorganized town or gore. The forest
fire warden of an unorganized town or gore shall have the same powers and
duties as town forest fire wardens and shall be subject to the requirements of
this subchapter. The chief of the fire department, fire district, or private fire
department with the jurisdictional responsibility to respond to a municipality,
unorganized town, or gore, as town forest fire warden, may designate deputy
town forest fire wardens. The town forest fire warden shall provide a list of all
designated deputy forest fire wardens to the Commissioner. Deputy forest fire
wardens shall only have the authority to issue permits to kindle a fire as set
forth in sections 2644 and 2645 of this subchapter.
(c) When there are woodlands within the limits of a city, the chief of the
fire department of such city shall act as the city forest fire warden with all the
powers and duties of town forest fire wardens.
When a municipality,
unorganized town, or gore does not have a fire department or is not covered by
a fire district, the municipality, unorganized town, or gore may contract with a
neighboring fire department or fire district to designate the chief of the fire
department or fire district to serve as the town forest fire warden for the
municipality, unorganized town, or gore.
When a private fire department
provides fire suppression and control services to a municipality, unorganized
town, or gore, the chief of the private fire department may serve as the town
forest fire warden when approved by the municipality, unorganized town, or
gore.
(d) When the Commissioner deems it difficult in any municipality for one
warden to take charge of protecting the entire municipality from forest fires,
he or she may appoint one or more deputy forest fire wardens. Such wardens
under the direction of the fire warden shall have the same powers, duties, and
pay and make the same reports through the fire warden to the Commissioner as
forest fire wardens. [Repealed.]


--- Page 30 ---
1632
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(e) The Commissioner may appoint designate special forest fire wardens
who shall hold office during at the pleasure of the Commissioner. Such The
fire wardens shall be employees of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation with forest fire suppression and control training, and shall have the
same powers and duties throughout the State as town forest fire wardens,
except that all expenses and charges incurred on account of their official acts
shall be paid from the appropriations for the Department.
§ 2642. SALARY AND COMPENSATION OF TOWN FOREST FIRE
WARDENS
(a) The salary of a town forest fire warden and any deputy town forest fire
warden shall be determined by the selectboard members for time spent in the
performance of the duties of his or her the warden’s office, which shall be paid
by the town.
In addition thereto, he or she shall receive from the
Commissioner $30.00 annually for fulfilling the requirements of section 2645
of this title and keeping the required State records. He or she shall also receive
from the Commissioner $30.00 per diem for attendance at each training
required by the Commissioner. He or she shall also receive annually an amount
of $10.00 for each fire report that is submitted by the forest fire warden under
section 2644 of this title.
* * *
§ 2643. TOWN’S LIABILITY FOR SUPPRESSION OF FOREST FIRES;
STATE AID
(a)
A municipality in which a forest fire occurs shall pay the cost to
suppress a forest fire that occurs on land that is not owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources, including the costs of personnel and equipment.
The
Commissioner
may,
according
to
the
Department
fire
suppression
reimbursement policy when funds have been appropriated or are otherwise
available, reimburse a municipality for all or a portion of the costs of
suppressing a forest fire on land that is not owned by the Agency of Natural
Resources.
(b)
For the purpose of suppressing forest fires on lands owned by the
Agency of Natural Resources, the State shall may reimburse a town
municipality or unorganized town or gore for some or all its forest fire
suppression costs at a rate determined by the Commissioner according to the
Department fire suppression reimbursement policy. If the total acreage of a
forest fire is determined to be partially on land owned by the Agency of
Natural Resources and partially on land owned by another party, the
Commissioner shall, at a minimum, reimburse the town at a rate determined by
the
Commissioner
according
to
the
Department
fire
suppression


--- Page 31 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1633
reimbursement policy for costs incurred by the municipality on land owned by
the Agency of Natural Resources if, at a minimum, the requirements in
subsection (c) of this section are satisfied. The Commissioner may establish
additional requirements and guidance regarding reimbursement.
(c) For any forest fire on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources
to be considered eligible for reimbursement from the State, a town forest fire
warden shall have reported the forest fire to the Commissioner within 14 days
of extinguishment of the fire as required under section 2644 of this title. For
reimbursement of fire suppression costs for forest fires on land owned by the
Agency of
Natural
Resources,
the town forest
fire warden and
the
Commissioner or designee shall approve the costs before submission to the
municipality for payment. The town forest fire warden may submit to the State
on an annual basis a request for reimbursement of fire suppression costs on
lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources. The State shall reimburse a
town for all applicable forest fire suppression costs when the reimbursement
request is presented in a form approved by the Commissioner to the
Commissioner by December 31 of each year. a municipality, unorganized
town, or gore shall, at a minimum, satisfy the following requirements:
(1) The town forest fire warden of a municipality, unorganized town, or
gore shall request assistance within one hour of discovery after the forest fire
from the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation Wildland Fire Team, for
the suppression of the forest fire on land owned by the Agency of Natural
Resources.
(2) The town forest fire warden shall submit a report of the forest fire to
the Commissioner within 24 hours after extinguishment of the fire as required
under section 2644 of this title.
(3) The municipality, unorganized town, or gore shall submit detailed
documentation of the costs of suppression of the forest fire to the
Commissioner within 60 days after extinguishment of the forest fire.
(4)
The Commissioner shall review and approve the request for
reimbursement.
(d)
For requests for reimbursement approved by the Commissioner for
forest fire suppression costs of a municipality, unorganized town, or gore on
land owned by the Agency of Natural Resources, payment of the costs shall be
made by the Commissioner of Finance and Management to the municipality,
unorganized town, or gore. The funds for the payment are to be taken from
the appropriation for forest fire suppression.


--- Page 32 ---
1634
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
§ 2644. DUTIES AND POWERS OF FIRE WARDEN
(a) When a forest fire or fire threatening a forest forestland is discovered in
his or her town the warden’s jurisdiction of responsibility, the town forest fire
warden shall enter upon any premises and take measures for its prompt
control, suppression, and extinguishment.
The town forest fire warden may
call upon any person for assistance. The town forest fire warden may choose to
share or delegate command authority to a chief engineer of a responding fire
department or, in the chief’s absence, the highest ranking assistant firefighter
present during the fire. Within 24 hours after discovery of the forest fire on
lands not owned by the Agency of Natural Resources, the town forest fire
warden shall notify the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation that the
fire was discovered.
(b) A town forest fire warden shall keep prepare a report for all forest fires
in the warden’s jurisdiction that includes, at a minimum, the following
information: a record of his or her the warden’s acts, the number of forest
fires and causes of the forest fires, the areas burned over, and the character and
amount of damages done in the warden’s jurisdiction. Within two weeks 48
hours after the extinguishment of a fire, the town forest fire warden shall file a
report of the fire to the Commissioner, but the making of a report under this
subsection shall not be a charge against the town.
* * *
(d) Within 12 hours after granting permission to kindle a fire pursuant to
section 2645 of this subchapter, the town forest fire warden or deputy forest
fire warden shall issue a written “Permit to Kindle” stating when and where
the fire may be kindled, including any conditions deemed appropriate by the
town forest fire warden.
§ 2645. OPEN BURNING; PERMITS
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person shall not kindle
or authorize another person to kindle a fire in the open air for the purpose of
burning natural wood, brush, weeds, or grass without first obtaining
permission a permit to kindle a fire from the town forest fire warden or deputy
forest fire warden stating when and where such the fire may be kindled and
imposing any conditions deemed necessary by the town forest fire warden or
deputy forest fire warden.
Special forest fire wardens designated by the
Commissioner shall issue permits for Category 3 fires on land owned by the
Agency of Natural Resources.
Wood, brush, weeds, or grass shall not be
burned if they have been altered in any way by surface applications or
injection of paints, stains, preservatives, oils, glues, or pesticides. Whenever
such permission is granted, the fire warden, within 12 hours, shall issue a
written “Permit to Kindle” for record purposes stating when and where such
fire may be kindled.


--- Page 33 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1635
(b) With the written approval of the Secretary, during During periods of
increased fire hazard, or when the Department of Environmental Conservation
has issued an Air Quality Alert due to forecasted ambient air quality, the
Commissioner may:
(1) notify Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period no
burning permits to kindle a fire shall be issued. The forest fire wardens shall
issue no permits during the specified period.
(2) Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period of time
permits for Category 2 or 3 fires shall be prohibited or restricted as set forth by
the Commissioner.
(3) Notify town forest fire wardens that for a specified period of time,
Category 1 fires shall be prohibited or restricted as set forth by the
Commissioner.
(c) The provisions of this section will not apply to A permit to kindle a fire
is not required for the following categories or conditions when the
requirements set forth below are satisfied:
(1) the kindling of a fire in a location where there is snow surrounding
the open burning site;
(2) fires built in stone arches, outdoor fireplaces, or existing fire rings at
State recreational areas or fires built in stone arches, outdoor fireplaces, or fire
rings on private property that are not located within woodland, timberland, or
a field containing dry grass or other flammable plant material contiguous to
woodland; Category 1 fires; or
(3) the kindling of a fire in a location that is 200 feet or more from any
woodland, timberland, or field containing dry grass or other flammable plant
material contiguous to woodland; or
(4) areas within cities maintaining a fire department. the kindling of a
fire that complies with all requirements established by rule adopted by the
Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation when a person is primitive
camping on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources.
(d)(1) The Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation may issue a ban
on kindling fires on lands owned by the Agency of Natural Resources when
necessary.
(e) As used in this section, “natural wood”:
(1)
“Category
1”
includes
campfires
that
meet
the
following
requirements:


--- Page 34 ---
1636
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(A) fires 36 inches in diameter or less that are built in stone arches,
outdoor fireplaces, or existing fire rings at State recreational areas, other public
recreational areas, or on private property; or
(B) fires 36 inches in diameter or less built in a location that is 200
feet or more from any forestland, or field containing dry grass or other
flammable plant materials contiguous to forestland.
(2)
“Category 2” includes natural wood fires that meet the following
requirements:
(A) fires in piles larger than 36 inches in diameter; or
(B)
fires 36 inches in diameter or less, not built in stone arches,
outdoor fireplaces, or existing fires rings at State recreational areas, other
public recreational areas, or on private property.
(3) “Category 3 broadcast burn” includes fires that meet the following
requirements:
(A) Fires applied to existing vegetation in a predetermined land area,
in a manner to meet specific or prescribed objectives, including fuels
management, slash abatement, firefighter training, agricultural field burning,
forest management, wildlife habitat management, or introduced species
management.
(B)
All Category 3 fires must have a plan that includes location,
objectives, and contingency for escaped fire.
(4)
“Forestland” means woodlands, timberland, brushland, forest, and
woodlots.
(5) “Natural wood” means:
* * *
(2)(6)
“Natural wood” does not mean other wood products such as
sawdust, plywood, particle board, or press board.
“Natural wood” does not
mean wood, brush, weeds, or grass if they have been altered in any way by
surface applications or injections of paints, stains, preservatives, oils, glues, or
pesticides.
* * *
§ 2646. PROCLAMATION BY GOVERNOR PROHIBITING KINDLING
OF FIRES: CLOSING OF WOODLANDS FORESTLANDS
(a) Whenever it appears to the Governor that there is excessive danger of
forest fires, he or she the Governor may prohibit by proclamation the kindling
of a fire in or adjoining forestland or close any or all sections of woodland


--- Page 35 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1637
forestland, or brushland, in any town for such time as the Governor may
designate, to all persons except the owner and his or her household, his or her
tenants, servants, or agents and persons in the public employment engaged in
abating such fire-hazardous condition.
(b) Proclamations shall be published in such newspapers of the State and
posted in such places and in such manner as the Governor may order in
writing. A copy of such publication the proclamation and order, attested by
the Secretary of Civil and Military Affairs, shall be filed with the Secretary of
State and a like copy shall be furnished to the Commissioner who shall attend
to the publication and posting thereof of the proclamation. The expenses of
such publication and posting shall be paid by the Department.
Notice of
removal of restrictions imposed by proclamation shall be in the same manner.
§ 2647. FIRES IN WOODS FORESTLAND OF ANOTHER; PERMISSION
No one shall build a fire in the woodlands forestland of another without the
permission of the owner, lessee, holder of right-of-way, or his or her
authorized agent between April 1 and November 1. A person who builds a fire
in or adjoining any woods shall totally extinguish such fire before leaving it.
§ 2648. SLASH REMOVAL
(a)
A person may cut or cause to be cut forest growth only if all slash
adjoining the right-of-way of any public highway, or the boundary lines of
woodlots forestland owned by adjoining property owners, is treated as follows:
(1) All slash shall be removed for a distance of 50 feet from the right-
of-way of any public highway or from the boundary lines of woodlots
forestland owned by adjoining property owners.
* * *
(d) As used in this section, “slash” means the branches, tree tops, and other
woody debris left on the forest floor after logging.
Sec. 9. REPEAL
10 V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapter 7 (uniform fire prevention ticket) is
repealed.
Sec. 10. 20 V.S.A. § 2673 is amended to read:
§ 2673. POWERS AND DUTIES DURING HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL OR
SUBSTANCE INCIDENT, FIRES; THREAT OF FIRES OR
EXPLOSIONS; FOREST FIRES
* * *


--- Page 36 ---
1638
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(e) The chief of a fire district is designated as the town forest fire warden
under 10 V.S.A chapter 83, subchapter 4 and shall have the authority and
duties related to forest fires pursuant to that subchapter.
Sec. 11. 20 V.S.A. § 2992 is amended to read:
§ 2992. DEFINITION
The term “private fire department” includes fire protection organizations
operated by industries, institutions, and establishments for self-protection and
also nonprofit volunteer fire associations.
Nothing contained in this
subchapter shall be construed to interfere with the exclusive jurisdiction vested
by law in the State Forester and the State Forester’s subordinates or the State
Forest Fire Warden over forest fires as provided in 10 V.S.A. § 2603(d); 10
V.S.A. chapter 83, subchapters subchapter 4 and 7; or 10 V.S.A. chapter 81,
nor to affect the laws governing prevention or extinguishment of forest fires.
Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere with
general authorization vested by law in a chief engineer of a fire district or chief
of a volunteer fire department to give outside aid as provided in sections 2674
and 2961 of this title.
* * * Increasing Wildland Fire Response Capacity Task Force * * *
Sec. 11a. INCREASING WILDLAND FIRE RESPONSE CAPACITY
TASK FORCE; REPORT
(a)
Creation.
There is created the Increasing Wildland Fire Response
Capacity Task Force to examine and report on increasing Vermont’s capacity
for wildland fire response.
(b) Membership. The following individuals and entities shall be invited by
Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation to join the Task Force:
(1) the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation;
(2) Vermont Emergency Management;
(3) the Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Safety;
(4) the Green Mountain National Forest;
(5) the Vermont League of Cities and Towns; and
(6) two municipal fire chiefs, with one being a career fire fighter and
the other being a volunteer fire fighter.
(c) Powers and duties. The Task Force shall examine how to best increase
Vermont’s capacity for wildland fire response, including:


--- Page 37 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1639
(1)
examining available information on wildland fire incidence and
existing response capacity, and making recommendations regarding staffing,
funding, equipment, supplies, and infrastructure, including vehicles, necessary
to increase wildland fire response capacity; and
(2)
identifying any potential policy or statutory changes needed to
improve
wildland
fire
response
capacity;
clarify
statewide
roles
and
responsibilities among State, municipal, and federal entities; and recommend
any coordination and communication improvements.
(d) Assistance.
The Task Force shall have the administrative, technical,
and legal assistance of Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation.
(e) Report. On or before February 15, 2027, and again on or before July
2027, the Task Force shall submit a written report to House Committees on
Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and on Government Operations and
Military Affairs and to the Senate Committees on Natural Resources and
Energy and on Government Operations with its findings to date and any
recommendations for legislative action.
(f) Meetings.
(1)
The Commissioner of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation, or designee, shall call the first meeting of the Task Force.
(2)
The Commissioner of the Department of Forests, Parks and
Recreation, or designee, shall be the chair of the Task Force.
(3) A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum.
(4) The Task Force shall cease to exist on November 16, 2027.
(g) Compensation and reimbursement. Members of the Task Force shall be
entitled to per diem compensation and reimbursement of expenses as permitted
under 32 V.S.A. § 1010.
These payments shall be made from monies
appropriated to the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation.
* * * Public Safety Communications * * *
Sec. 12. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY; PUBLIC SAFETY
COMMUNICATIONS TASK FORCE; AUTHORIZATION FOR
ONGOING EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS
(a)
The General Assembly authorizes the use of monies appropriated or
held in reserve pursuant 2022 Acts and Resolves No. 185, Sec. B.1100, as
amended by 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78, Sec. C.115 and 2023 Acts and
Resolves No. 87, Sec. 49, for the Department of Public Safety to procure and
implement a multidisciplinary computer-aided dispatch system for public
safety communications, subject to the following:


--- Page 38 ---
1640
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(1) $2,250,000.00 shall be available for immediate costs associated with
establishing the multidisciplinary computer-aided dispatch system and five
years of software licensing fees, provided that the Department issues requests
for proposal and signs contracts for services on or before January 1, 2027;
(2)
$190,000.00 shall be immediately available for cybersecurity,
expanded use of Rapid SOS, and geographic information systems; and
(3) $4,500,000.00 shall be available incrementally over three years to:
(A)
implement and expand the Land Mobile Radio network to
include a Statewide conceptual design;
(B)
detail designs for one or more proof of concept projects and
initially implement pilot projects; and
(C) build out or improve 10 or more Land Mobile Radio sites,
including equipment and antenna deployment at existing chosen sites.
(b)
Notwithstanding any provisions of 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78,
Sec. C.114 to the contrary, the Public Safety Communications Task Force shall
continue in existence until February 15, 2027. The Task Force shall meet as
necessary to advise the Department of Public Safety on executing the Task
Force recommendations and final design plan. Notwithstanding 2023 Acts and
Resolves No. 78, Sec. C.114(d)(3), members of the Task Force shall be
entitled to per diem compensation and reimbursement of expenses permitted
under 32 V.S.A. § 1010.
These payments shall be made from monies
appropriated to the Department of Public Safety.
(c)
The Department of Public Safety shall submit written reports to the
House Committees on Appropriations and on Government Operations and
Military
Affairs
and
the
Senate
Committees
on
Appropriations
and
Government Operations concerning the expenditure of monies pursuant to this
section. The Department shall submit the written reports on or before May 1,
2027, January 15, 2028, and January 15, 2029, concerning the expenditures
made during each respective reporting period.
(d) After the end of the three-year period described in subdivision (a)(3) of
this section, the Department of Public Safety may submit a request to the
General Assembly to authorize the use of any remaining monies from the
appropriations appropriated or held in reserve pursuant 2022 Acts and
Resolves No. 185, Sec. B.1100, as amended by 2023 Acts and Resolves No.
78, Sec. C.115 and 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 87, Sec. 49. Any remaining
monies shall not be used by the Department unless authorized by the General
Assembly.
Sec. 13. [Deleted.]


--- Page 39 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1641
* * * Programs Contingent on Availability of Agency Funds * * *
Sec. 13a. PROGRAMS CONTINGENT ON AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY
FUNDS
The duty to implement Secs. 1 (Ready Response Grant Program) and 2
(Technical Rescue Grant Program) of this act is contingent upon the
availability of sufficient funds within the Department of Public Safety and the
Agency of Administration to support the programs.
* * * Appropriation * * *
Sec. 13b. APPROPRIATION
The sum of $500,000.00 is appropriated from the General Fund to the
Department of Public Safety in fiscal year 2027 for the Ready Response Grant
Program administered by the Division of Emergency Management.
* * * Emergency Rule * * *
Sec. 13c. 3 V.S.A. § 844 is amended to read:
§ 844. EMERGENCY RULES
(a) Where an agency believes that there exists an imminent peril to public
health, safety, or welfare, it may adopt an emergency rule. The rule may be
adopted without having been prefiled or filed in proposed or final proposed
form, and may be adopted after whatever notice and hearing the agency finds
to be practicable under the circumstances. The agency shall make reasonable
efforts to ensure that emergency rules are known to persons who may be
affected by them.
* * *
(g)
In the alternative to the grounds specified in subsection (a) of this
section, an agency may adopt emergency amendments to existing rules using
the process set forth in this section if each of the subdivisions (1)–(5) of this
subsection applies.
On a majority vote of the entire Committee, the
Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules may object to the emergency
amendments on the basis that one or more of these subdivisions do not apply
or under subdivision (e)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, or both.
(1) The existing rules implement a program controlled by federal statute
or rule or by a multistate entity.
(2) The controlling federal statute or rule has been amended to require a
change in the program, or the multistate entity has made a change in the
program that is to be implemented in all of the participating states.


--- Page 40 ---
1642
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(3)
The controlling federal statute or rule or the multistate entity
requires implementation of the change within 120 days or less.
(4) The adopting authority finds each of the following in writing:
(A)
The agency cannot by the date required for implementation
complete the final adoption of amended rules using the process set forth in
sections 837 through 843 837–843 of this title.
(B)
Failure
to
amend
the
rules
by
the
date
required
for
implementation would cause significant harm to the public health, safety, or
welfare or significant financial loss to the State.
(5) On the date the emergency rule amendments are adopted pursuant to
this subsection, the adopting authority prefiles a corresponding permanent rule
pursuant to section 837 of this title.
(h) In addition to the grounds for emergency rulemaking under subsections
(a) and (g) of this section, an agency may adopt an emergency rule under this
section if an amendment to a federal statute, rule, or policy will materially
conflict with or threaten the ability of the agency to implement a statutory or
regulatory program required under Vermont law.
On a majority vote of the
entire Committee, the Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules may
object to proposed emergency rules for adoption under this subsection on the
basis that the provisions of this subsection do not apply.
Sec. 13d. SUNSET OF AGENCY EMERGENCY RULEMAKING
AUTHORITY
3 V.S.A. § 844(h) (emergency rulemaking in response to federal action) is
repealed on July 1, 2028.
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 14. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) This section and sections 13c and 13d shall take effect upon passage.
(b) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposal of
amendment.
Senator Perchlik, for the Committee on Appropriations, to which the bill
was referred, reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House that
the bill be amended as recommended by the Committee on Government
Operations with further proposals of amendment as follows:


--- Page 41 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1643
First:
In
Sec.
12,
Department
of
Public
Safety;
Public
Safety
Communications Task Force; authorization for ongoing expenditure of funds,
by striking out subsection (d) in its entirety.
Second:
By striking out Sec. 13b, appropriation, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 13b to read as follows:
Sec. 13b. [Deleted.]
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposals of
amendment.
Thereupon, the bill was read the second time by title only pursuant to
Rule 43, and the recommendation of proposal of amendment of the Committee
on Government Operations was amended as recommended by the Committee
on Appropriations.
Thereupon, the proposal of amendment recommended by the Committee on
Government Operations, as amended, was agreed to and third reading of the
bill was ordered.
Proposals of Amendment; Third Reading Ordered
H. 942.
Senator Heffernan, for the Committee on Agriculture, to which was
referred House bill entitled:
An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects.
Reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House to amend the
bill as follows:
First: In Sec. 3, 6 V.S.A. chapter 37, in section 681, after subdivision (3),
by adding a new subdivision (4) to read as follows and by renumbering the
remaining subdivisions to be numerically correct:
(4) “Convenience store” means a type of retail establishment that sells a
limited number of everyday items such as motor fuel, tobacco products, made-
to-order food, snacks, and beverages that serve as a quick, accessible retail
option for consumers who typically purchase a small number of products, and
that does not offer a sufficient quantity of consumer commodities to make unit
pricing as useful to consumers.
“Convenience store” does not include a
grocery store, drug store, dollar store, or any other type of store.
The
Secretary has the discretion to determine whether a retail establishment is a
convenience store.


--- Page 42 ---
1644
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
Second:
In Sec. 3, 6 V.S.A. chapter 37, in section 686, by striking out
subsection (a) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (a)
to read as follows:
(a) The unit price requirements of this chapter shall not apply to sales of
consumer commodities commodity sales as follows:
(1)
At a retail store with less than 7,000 square feet of floor space
dedicated to the sale of consumer commodities.
This exception exemption
shall not apply to the sales agencies or instrumentalities retail establishments
of a company having two or more sales agencies or instrumentalities locations
as parts of that company.
(2)
For use or consumption on the premises where sold Convenience
stores.
(3) When different brands or products are commingled in one receptacle
for a limited-time one-priced sale.
(4) When commodities are individually marked with a clearance or sale
tag and are located in a clearance or limited-time sale section of the store.
Clearance or limited-time sale sections may be on a shelf or multiple shelves,
or in another defined area of the store.
(5) When the unit price is identical to the total selling price.
(6) When the item falls into one of the following categories:
(A) seasonal decorations; or
(B)
beverages subject to the Federal Alcoholic Administration Act
packing and labeling requirements.
Third:
By striking out Sec. 4, effective date, and its reader assistance
heading in their entireties and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 4 and reader
assistance heading to read as follows:
* * * Equine Farming for Use Value Appraisal * * *
Sec. 4. 32 V.S.A. § 3752 is amended to read:
§ 3752. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
(1) “Agricultural land” means any land, exclusive of any housesite, in
active use to grow hay or cultivated crops, pasture livestock, cultivate trees
bearing edible fruit, or produce an annual maple product, and that is 25 acres
or more in size, except as provided in this subdivision (1). Agricultural land
shall include includes buffer zones as defined and required in the Agency of
Agriculture, Food and Markets’ Required Agricultural Practices rule adopted
under 6 V.S.A. chapter 215. There shall be a presumption that the land is used
for agricultural purposes if:


--- Page 43 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1645
(A) it is owned by a farmer and is part of the overall farm unit;
(B)
it is used by a farmer as part of the farmer’s operation under
written lease for at least three years; or
(C) it has produced an annual gross income from the sale of farm
crops or from equine farming in one of two, or three of the five, calendar years
preceding of at least:
(i) $2,000.00 for parcels of up to 25 acres; and
(ii) $75.00 per acre for each acre over 25, with the total income
required not to exceed $5,000.00.
(iii)
Exceptions to these income requirements may be made in
cases of orchard lands planted to fruit-producing trees, bushes, or vines that are
not yet of bearing age.
As used in this section, the term “farm crops” also
includes animal fiber, cider, wine, and cheese, produced on the enrolled land
or on a housesite adjoining the enrolled land, from agricultural products grown
on the enrolled land.
* * *
(7) “Farmer” means a person:
(A) who earns at least one-half of the farmer’s annual gross income
from the business of farming as that term is defined in Regulation 1.175-3
issued under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or from the business of equine
farming; or
(B)(i) who produces farm crops that are processed in a farm facility
situated on land enrolled by the farmer in a use value appraisal program or on
a housesite adjoining the enrolled land;
(ii)
whose gross income from the sale of the processed farm
products pursuant to subdivision (i) of this subdivision (B), when added to
other gross income from the business of farming as used in subdivision (A) of
this subdivision (7), equals at least one-half of the farmer’s annual gross
income; and
(iii) who produces on the farm a minimum of 75 percent of the
farm crops processed in the farm facility.
(C)
The Agency of Agriculture, Food and Markets shall assist the
Director in making determinations of eligibility pursuant to subdivision (B) of
this subdivision (7).
* * *


--- Page 44 ---
1646
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(18)
“Equine farming” means the raising, feeding, or management of
four or more equines owned or boarded by the farmer, including training,
showing, and providing instruction and lessons in riding, training, and the
management of equines.
Fourth: By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be
Sec. 5 to read as follows:
* * * Community Development Initiatives * * *
Sec. 5. 10 V.S.A. § 325m is amended to read:
§ 325m. RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE
(a) Definitions. As used in this subchapter:
(1) “Rural area” means a county of the State designated as “rural” or
“mostly rural” by the U.S. Census Bureau in its most recent decennial census.
(2) “Small town” means a town in the State with a population of less
than 5,000 at the date of the most recent U.S. Census Bureau decennial census.
(3)
“Community development initiatives” means priority projects
located throughout the State that support agriculture, historic preservation,
outdoor recreation, and other critical economic development needs, which may
be supported when State resources or staffing assistance is not available.
(b)
Establishment.
There is created the Rural Economic Development
Initiative to be administered by the Vermont Housing and Conservation Board
for
the
purpose
of
promoting
and
facilitating
community
economic
development in the small towns and rural areas of the State, and supporting
community development initiatives.
The Rural Economic Development
Initiative
shall
collaborate
with
municipalities,
businesses,
regional
development
corporations,
regional
planning
commissions,
and
other
appropriate entities to access funding and other assistance available to small
towns and businesses primarily in rural areas of the State when existing State
resources or staffing assistance is not available.
(c)
Services; access to funding.
The Rural Economic Development
Initiative shall provide the following services to small towns and businesses
primarily in rural areas:
(1) identification of grant or other funding opportunities that facilitate
business
development,
infrastructure
development,
or
other
economic
development opportunities; or
(2)
technical assistance in writing grants, accessing other funding,
coordination with providers of grants or other funding, strategic planning for
the implementation or timing of activities funded by grants or other funding,
and compliance with the requirements of grant awards or awards of other
funding.


--- Page 45 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1647
(d) Priority. In providing services under this section, the Rural Economic
Development Initiative shall give first priority to projects that have received
necessary State or municipal approval and that are ready for construction or
implementation.
(e)
Priority projects.
The Rural Economic Development Initiative shall
seek to assist include the following priority types of projects:
(1)
milk plants, milk handlers, or dairy products, as those terms are
defined in 6 V.S.A. § 2672;
(2) outdoor recreation and equipment enterprises;
(3) value-added food and forest products enterprises;
(4) farm operations, including phosphorus removal technology for farm
operations;
(5) coworking or business generator and accelerator spaces;
(6) commercial composting facilities; and
(7)
restoration and rehabilitation of historic buildings in community
centers.
(f)
Coordination.
In providing services under this section, the Rural
Economic Development Initiative shall coordinate with the Secretary of
Commerce and Community Development, regional development corporations,
and regional planning commissions.
(g) Report. Beginning on January 31, 2019, and annually thereafter, the
Rural Economic Development Initiative shall submit to the Senate Committees
on Agriculture and on Economic Development, Housing and General Affairs
and the House Committees on Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and
on Commerce and Economic Development a report regarding the activities and
progress of the Initiative as part of the report of the Vermont Farm and Forest
Viability Program. The report shall summarize the Initiative’s activities in the
preceding year; evaluate the effectiveness of the services provided by the
Initiative; provide an accounting of the grants or other funding that the
Initiative facilitated or helped secure; and recommend any changes to the
program to further economic development in small towns and rural areas of
the State.
Fifth: By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be Sec.
6 to read as follows:


--- Page 46 ---
1648
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
* * * Retail Sales Tax * * *
Sec. 6. 32 V.S.A. § 9741 is amended to read:
§ 9741. SALES NOT COVERED
Retail sales and use of the following shall be exempt from the tax on retail
sales imposed under section 9771 of this title and the use tax imposed under
section 9773 of this title:
* * *
(12) Motor vehicle purchases and use taxed under chapter 219 of this
title and the transactions exempted therefrom that are listed in section 8911 of
this title. Provided, however, that notwithstanding subdivision 8911(5) of this
title, construction, earthmoving, logging, and motorized equipment that has
not been registered as a motor vehicle is subject to tax under this chapter, and
further provided that power take off and other auxiliary equipment on motor
vehicles, whether attached prior to or subsequent to registration, is not exempt
under this section, except for equipment under subdivision (51) of this section.
Motor vehicle parts purchased by a dealer registered under the provisions of
23 V.S.A. §§ 451–468 shall be exempt from the tax under this chapter when
used to recondition a used motor vehicle owned by the dealer in its inventory
for resale.
* * *
(51) The following machinery, including repair parts, used for timber
cutting, timber removal, and processing of timber or other solid wood forest
products intended to be sold ultimately at retail:
skidders with grapple and
cable; feller bunchers; cut-to-length processors; forwarders; delimbers; loader
slashers; log loaders; whole-tree chippers; stationary screening systems;
firewood processors, elevators, and screens, semi-trailers, tractors, truck
cranes, truck tractors, trailers, and motor trucks and motor vehicles with a
manufacturer’s listed gross vehicle weight of 10,000 pounds or more; and
when sold for use on any machinery listed under this subdivision, traction
enhancement accessories, tire chains, track systems, and winch cables.
The
Department of Taxes shall publish guidance relating to the application of this
exemption. The Department of Taxes may require a purchaser at the time of
purchase to certify that a motor vehicle or other equipment is exempt under
this section.
As used in this subdivision, “motor vehicle” has the same
meaning as in 23 V.S.A. § 4(21) and “motor truck” has the same meaning as in
23 V.S.A. § 4(20).
* * *


--- Page 47 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1649
Sixth:
By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be
Sec. 7 to read as follows:
* * * Farm and Forestry Operations Security Special Fund * * *
Sec. 7. 6 V.S.A. § 4643(e) is amended to read:
(e)
All administratively complete applications shall be evaluated by the
Review Board.
Within 15 days following receipt of an administratively
complete application, the Review Board by majority vote shall recommend to
the Secretary whether to issue a payment to the applicant. If the Review Board
recommends an award under this section, the The Secretary shall issue the
award make a final award determination within 15 days following the date of
the Review Board’s recommendation.
Seventh: By adding a reader assistance heading and one new section to be
Sec. 8 to read as follows:
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 8. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) Sec. 4 shall take effect on July 1, 2027.
(b) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposals of
amendment.
Senator Brock, for the Committee on Finance, to which the bill was
referred, reported recommending that the Senate propose to the House that the
bill be amended as recommended by the Committee on Agriculture with the
following further proposals of amendment:
First: In the third instance of amendment, by striking out Sec. 4, 32 V.S.A.
§ 3752 (definitions), in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 4 to
read as follows:
Sec. 4. EQUINE FARMING AND USE VALUE APPRAISAL STUDY;
REPORT
(a) The Commissioner of Taxes shall study and provide recommendations
for including equine farming in the Use Value Appraisal Program.  The
Commissioner shall submit the recommendations to the House Committees on
Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry and on Ways and Means and the
Senate Committees on Agriculture and on Finance on or before December 15,
2026.  The Commissioner’s recommendations shall include an analysis of the
potential fiscal impact of permitting agricultural land and farm buildings that
are used for equine farming to enroll in the Use Value Appraisal Program.


--- Page 48 ---
1650
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(b) As used in this section:
(1) “Agricultural land” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(1).
(2) “Equine farming” means the raising, feeding, or management of four
or more equines owned or boarded by a farmer for gain or profit, including
training, showing, and providing instruction and lessons in riding, training, and
the management of equines.
(3) “Farm buildings” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(14).
(4) “Farmer” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 3752(7).
Second:
In the fifth instance of amendment, by striking out Sec. 6, 32
V.S.A. § 9741, in its entirety and by renumbering the remaining sections to be
numerically correct
Third:
In the seventh instance of amendment, by striking out the newly
renumbered Sec. 7, effective dates, and its reader assistance heading in their
entireties and inserting in lieu thereof a reader assistance heading and a new
Sec. 7 to read as follows:
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
And that the bill ought to pass in concurrence with such proposals of
amendment.
Thereupon, the bill was read the second time by title only pursuant to
Rule 43, and the recommendation of proposals of amendment of the
Committee on Agriculture were amended as recommended by the Committee
on Finance.
Thereupon, the proposals of amendment recommended by the Committee
on Agriculture, as amended, were agreed to and third reading of the bill was
ordered.
Rules Suspended; Bill Passed in Concurrence with Proposal of
Amendment
H. 935.
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended and House bill
entitled:
An act relating to emergency management.
Was placed in all remaining stages of its passage in concurrence with
proposal of amendment.
Thereupon, the bill was read the third time and passed in concurrence with
proposal of amendment.


--- Page 49 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1651
Rules Suspended; Bill Passed in Concurrence with Proposal of
Amendment
H. 942.
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended and House bill
entitled:
An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects.
Was placed in all remaining stages of its passage in concurrence with
proposal of amendment.
Thereupon, the bill was read the third time and passed in concurrence with
proposal of amendment.
Rules Suspended; Proposal of Amendment; Bill Passed in Concurrence
with Proposal of Amendment
H. 294.
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended and House bill
entitled:
An act relating to telecommunications services and wages in correctional
facilities.
Was placed in all remaining stages of its passage in concurrence.
Thereupon, pending the question, Shall the bill be read the third time?,
Senator Vyhovsky moved that the Senate propose to the House to amend the
bill in Sec. 2, Department of Corrections; evaluation of telecommunications
services; report, in subsection (b), by striking out subdivision (4) in its entirety
and by renumbering the remaining subdivisions to be numerically correct.
Which was agreed to.
Thereupon, the bill was read the third time and passed in concurrence with
proposal of amendment.
Rules Suspended; Bill Passed in Concurrence
H. 567.
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended and House bill
entitled:
An act relating to unclaimed property, State retirement systems, and capital
debt.
Was placed in all remaining stages of its passage in concurrence.
Thereupon, the bill was read the third time and passed in concurrence.


--- Page 50 ---
1652
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
Report of Committee of Conference Accepted and Adopted on the Part of
the Senate; Rules Suspended ; Immediate Reconsideration; Report of
Committee of Conference Accepted and Adopted on the Part of the
Senate
S. 325.
Senator Watson, for the Committee of Conference, submitted the following
report:
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
The Committee of Conference, to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon Senate Bill, entitled:
S.325. An act relating to regional planning and Act 250 Tier jurisdiction.
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the Senate accede to the House proposal of amendment with
further amendment thereto as follows:
First: In Sec. 6, 10 V.S.A. § 6081, by striking out subsection (t) in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (t) to read as follows:
(t)(1) No permit or permit amendment is required for the construction of
improvements for an accessory on-farm business for the storage or sale of
qualifying products or the other eligible enumerated products as defined in
24 V.S.A. § 4412(11)(A)(i)(I).
(2) No permit or permit amendment is required for the construction of
improvements for an accessory on-farm business for the preparation or
processing of qualifying products as defined in 24 V.S.A. § 4412(11)(A)(i)(I),
provided that more than 50 percent of the total annual sales of the prepared or
processed qualifying products come from products produced on the farm
where the business is located. This subsection shall not apply to
(3) No permit or permit amendment is required for the construction of
improvements related to hosting events or farm stays as part of for an
accessory on-farm business of educational, recreational, or social events that
feature agricultural practices or qualifying products, or both, as defined in
24 V.S.A. § 4412(11)(A)(i)(II). Types of events may include concerts and
farm stays with five or fewer dwelling units. To qualify for this exemption,
the accessory on-farm business shall not:
(A) have noise exceed 70 dB at the property boundaries; and
(B) have events that continue past 10:00 p.m.


--- Page 51 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1653
(4) For purposes of this subsection, “feature agricultural practices or
qualifying products” means that a host farm’s agricultural practices or its
qualifying products are a substantial component of any educational,
recreational, or social event the accessory on-farm business hosts.
Second: In Sec. 9, public engagement plan, in subsection (a), by striking
out subdivisions (1) and (2) in their entireties and inserting in lieu thereof new
subdivisions (1) and (2) to read as follows:
(1) ensure the engagement planning process does not presuppose
outcomes or take positions on policy and political issues;
(2) utilize nonpartisan facilitation for statewide, democratic public
engagement;
Third: In Sec. 9, public engagement plan, in subsection (b), by striking out
subdivisions (1) and (2) in their entireties and inserting in lieu thereof new
subdivisions (1) and (2) to read as follows:
(1) the risks of losing working lands, both agricultural and forestland,
and the causes of those risks, and critical natural resources not already well-
protected by current land use policy, permitting programs, or other regulatory
tools, including agricultural soils, rare natural communities, forest blocks,
habitat connectors of statewide significance, and headwaters; and
(2) equitable, efficient, and effective regulatory or nonregulatory tools
to protect these working lands and critical natural resources and the barriers to
land stewardship.
Fourth: In Sec. 10, 2 V.S.A. chapter 32, in section 1031, by striking out
subsection (b) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (b)
to read as follows:
(b) Composition. The Committee shall be composed of six members:
three members of the House of Representatives, who shall not all be from the
same party, appointed by the Speaker of the House; and three members of the
Senate, who shall not all be from the same party, appointed by the Committee
on Committees.
Fifth: In Sec. 10, 2 V.S.A. chapter 32, in section 1031, in subsection (c), by
striking out the last sentence in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new
sentence to read as follows:
A quorum shall consist of four members.
Sixth: In Sec. 10, 2 V.S.A. chapter 32, in section 1031, by striking out
subsection (g) in its entirety and inserting in lieu of thereof a new subsection
(g) to read as follows:


--- Page 52 ---
1654
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(g) Duties. The Committee shall meet with the Land Use Review Board to
ensure strong communication and coordination regarding the interpretation and
implementation of the statutes amended as part of 2024 Acts and Resolves
No. 181, how the permitting process under 10 V.S.A. chapter 151 is working,
and how the new Board structure is working. The Committee shall also meet
with the Agency of Natural Resources to learn about Agency efforts to
improve and better coordinate its permitting processes and to coordinate
efforts for further improvements to the process for applicants and outcomes for
Vermonters.
Seventh: In Sec. 14, 24 V.S.A. § 4303, in subdivision (43), by striking out
subdivision (E) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subdivision
(E) to read as follows:
(E) serves to strengthen agricultural and forest industries, including
homesteading, small-scale agriculture and forestry, and the housing that
supports these activities, while minimizing conflicts of development with these
industries;
Eighth: In Sec. 20, 24 V.S.A. § 5808, by striking out subdivision (1) in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subdivision (1) to read as follows:
(1) a summary of the Community Investment Program’s activities
during the preceding fiscal year, including which municipalities received a
designation or new Step, or other actions taken by the Board that confer
eligibility for or priority access to State funding, tax credits, and other
Program benefits;
Ninth: In Sec. 21, municipal appeals and discretionary review of housing;
report, in subsection (a), by striking out subdivision (5) in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new subdivision (5) to read as follows:
(5) data on housing that has been built in the areas exempt from Act 250
jurisdiction under 10 V.S.A. § 6081(dd), including the number of units; the
type of units, including the number of affordable units, market-rate units,
second homes, units for short-term rental, units for long-term rental, single-
unit dwellings, and multiunit dwellings; the price; and where the units were
constructed; and
Tenth: By striking out Sec. 23, effective date, in its entirety and inserting in
lieu thereof a new Sec. 23 to read as follows:
Sec. 23. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026, except that in Sec. 6 (10 V.S.A.
§ 6081), subsection (t) shall take effect on July 1, 2027.


--- Page 53 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1655
SEN. ANNE E. WATSON
SEN. SETH BONGARTZ
SEN. TERRY K. WILLIAMS
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. AMY D. SHELDON
REP. LARRY LABOR
REP. ELA CHAPIN
Committee on the part of the House
Thereupon, the question, Shall the Senate accept and adopt the report of the
Committee of Conference?, was decided in the affirmative, on a roll call Yeas
27, Nays 3.
Senator Watson having demanded the yeas and nays, they were taken and
are as follows:
Roll Call
Those Senators who voted in the affirmative were:
Baruth, Beck,
Benson,
Bongartz,
Brennan,
Brock,
Chittenden,
Clarkson,
Collamore,
Cummings, Hardy, Harrison, Hashim, Ingalls, Lyons, Major, Mattos, Morley,
Norris, Perchlik, Plunkett, Ram Hinsdale, Watson, Weeks, Westman, White,
Williams.
Those Senators who voted in the negative were:
Gulick, Heffernan,
Vyhovsky.
Thereupon, on motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended to
permit reconsideration of the action just taken on Senate Bill S. 325.
Thereupon, assuring the Chair that he voted with the majority whereby the
Senate accepted and adopted the report of the Committee of Conference,
Senator Baruth moved that the Senate reconsider its action on Senate Bill S.
325, which was agreed to.
Thereupon, the pending question, Shall the Senate accept and adopt the
report of the Committee of Conference?, was decided in the affirmative, on a
roll call, Yeas 28, Nays 2.
Senator Watson having demanded the yeas and nays, they were taken and
are as follows:
Roll Call
Those Senators who voted in the affirmative were:
Baruth, Beck,
Benson,
Bongartz,
Brennan,
Brock,
Chittenden,
Clarkson,
Collamore,
Cummings, Hardy, Harrison, Hashim, Heffernan, Ingalls, Lyons, Major,
Mattos, Morley, Norris, Perchlik, Plunkett, Ram Hinsdale, Watson, Weeks,
Westman, White, Williams.
Those Senators who voted in the negative were: Gulick, Vyhovsky.


--- Page 54 ---
1656
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
Report of Committee of Conference Accepted and Adopted on the Part of
the Senate
H. 740.
Senator Watson, for the Committee of Conference, submitted the following
report:
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
The Committee of Conference to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon House Bill entitled:
H.740. An act relating to the greenhouse gas inventory and registry.
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the House accede to the Senate proposal of amendment with
further amendment thereto by striking out Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 582, in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 1 to read as follows:
Sec. 1. 10 V.S.A. § 582 is amended to read:
§ 582. GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES; REGISTRY
(a)
Inventory and forecasting.
The Secretary shall work, in conjunction
with other states or a regional consortium, to establish a periodic and
consistent inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. The Secretary shall publish
the Vermont Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory and Forecast by not later
than June 1, 2010, and updates shall be published annually until 2028 2030,
until a regional or national inventory and registry program is established in
which Vermont participates, or until the federal National Emissions Inventory
includes mandatory greenhouse gas reporting.
The Secretary of Natural
Resources shall include a supplemental accounting in the Vermont Greenhouse
Gas Emissions Inventory and Forecast that measures the upstream and
lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of liquid, gaseous, solid geologic and
biogenic fuels combusted in Vermont.
* * *
(e) Rules.
(1) The Secretary may adopt rules to implement the provisions of this
section and shall review existing and proposed international, federal, and State
greenhouse gas emission reporting programs and make reasonable efforts to
promote consistency among the programs established pursuant to this section
and other programs, and to streamline reporting requirements on greenhouse
gas emission sources.
Except as provided in subsection (g) of this section,
nothing in this section shall limit a State agency from adopting any rule within
its authority.


--- Page 55 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1657
(2)
The Secretary has authority to adopt rules that create a
comprehensive greenhouse gas emission reporting program that covers all
sources of emissions, including fuel suppliers. Suppliers of transportation and
heating fuels covered by the rules shall comply with requests from the
Secretary for information. The Secretary shall adopt a rule that at a minimum
includes the types and volume of fossil fuels sold by sector for the
transportation, residential, commercial, and industrial sectors and by zip code,
municipality, or the smallest geographic level practicable that also protects the
individual identities of consumers.
* * *
SEN. ANNE E. WATSON
SEN. SETH BONGARTZ
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. KATHLEEN C. JAMES
REP. R. SCOTT CAMPBELL
REP. DARA TORRE
Committee on the part of the House
Thereupon, the question, Shall the Senate accept and adopt the report of the
Committee of Conference?, was decided in the affirmative, on a roll call, Yeas
17, Nays 13.
Senator Watson having demanded the yeas and nays, they were taken and
are as follows:
Roll Call
Those Senators who voted in the affirmative were:
Baruth, Bongartz,
Chittenden, Clarkson, Cummings, Gulick, Hardy, Harrison, Hashim, Lyons,
Major, Perchlik, Plunkett, Ram Hinsdale, Vyhovsky, Watson, White.
Those Senators who voted in the negative were: Beck, Benson, Brennan,
Brock, Collamore, Heffernan, Ingalls, Mattos, Morley, Norris,
Weeks,
Westman, Williams.
Report of Committee of Conference Accepted and Adopted on the Part of
the Senate
H. 952.
Senator Harrison, for the Committee of Conference, submitted the
following report:
To the Senate and House of Representatives:


--- Page 56 ---
1658
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
The Committee of Conference to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon House Bill entitled:
H.952. An act relating to capital construction and State bonding budget
adjustment.
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the Senate recede from its proposal of amendment and that
the bill be amended by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in
lieu thereof the following:
* * * Legislative Intent * * *
Sec. 1. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 1 is amended to read:
Sec. 1. LEGISLATIVE INTENT
(a)
It is the intent of the General Assembly that of the $111,965,288.44
$123,564,624.67
authorized
in
Secs.
2–16
this
act,
not
more
than
$61,969,761.44 $61,449,761.44 shall be appropriated in the first year of the
biennium, and the remainder shall be appropriated in the second year.
* * *
* * * Bond-Funded Project Authorizations * * *
Sec. 2. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 2 is amended to read:
Sec. 2. STATE BUILDINGS
* * *
(b) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026:
* * *
(2) Statewide, three-acre parcel stormwater compliance: $1,500,000.00
$500,000.00
* * *
(c) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027:
(1) Statewide, major maintenance:
$8,500,000.00 $8,683,413.18
* * *
(4) Statewide, three-acre parcel stormwater compliance: $1,100,000.00
[Repealed.]
* * *
(7)
Montpelier, State House replacement of historic interior finishes:
$50,000.00


--- Page 57 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1659
(8)
Montpelier, 120 State Street HVAC – steam lines interior
renovation:
$2,000,000.00 $1,000,000.00
* * *
(12)
Montpelier, State House entryway upgrades, design documents,
including comprehensive parking plan and delivery truck access, and second-
floor egress design:
$1,300,000.00
(d)
On or before January 15, 2027, the Sergeant at Arms and the
Commissioner of Buildings and General Services shall report to the House
Committee on Corrections and Institutions and the Senate Committee on
Institutions on the status of the designs for the State House entryway and
second-floor egress under subdivision (c)(12) of this section and on estimates
for construction costs.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$13,726,680.44 $12,726,680.44
Appropriation – FY 2027
$15,925,000.00 $15,308,413.18
Total Appropriation – Section 2
$28,951,680.44 $28,035,093.62
Sec. 3. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 3 is amended to read:
Sec. 3. HUMAN SERVICES
(a) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026 to the Department of
Buildings and General Services for the Agency of Human Services for the
following projects:
* * *
(4)
St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex (NECC) door
control system replacements:
$1,000,000.00 $1,480,000.00
* * *
(b) The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Department of
Buildings and General Services for the Agency of Human Services for the
following projects:
(1)
Statewide, planning, design, and construction for HVAC system
upgrades at correctional facilities:
$1,000,000.00 $9,426,254.21
* * *
(4)
St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex (NECC) door
control system replacements:
$2,600,000.00 $2,920,000.00
(5)
Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility (NSCF) sprinkler
system upgrades:
$500,000.00 [Repealed.]


--- Page 58 ---
1660
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(6)
Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility (NSCF) boiler
replacement:
$700,000.00
(7)
Maintenance, replacement, and renovations at the Chittenden
Regional Correctional Facility or other correctional facilities utilized in
response
to
overcrowding
for
the
incarcerated
women’s
population:
$598,850.00
* * *
Appropriation – FY 2026
$8,225,000.00 $8,705,000.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$4,800,000.00 $14,345,104.21
Total Appropriation – Section 3
$13,025,000.00 $23,050,104.21
Sec. 4. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 4 is amended to read:
Sec. 4. COMMERCE AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
* * *
(b)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Commerce and Community Development for the following projects:
(1) Major maintenance at statewide historic sites:
$550,000.00
$750,000.00
* * *
(3) Roadside historic site markers:
$25,000.00 $45,000.00
* * *
Appropriation – FY 2027
$621,000.00 $841,000.00
Total Appropriation – Section 4
$1,667,000.00 $1,887,000.00
Sec. 5. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 6 is amended to read:
Sec. 6. VETERANS’ HOME
(a)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2026 to the Vermont
Veterans’ Home for the following projects:
(1) Replacement of air handlers:
$710,000.00
(2) Expansion of laundry facilities:
$340,000.00
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer of the Vermont Veterans’ Home is
authorized to transfer any unexpended project balances between the amounts
appropriated in subdivisions (a)(1)–(2) of this section and the amount
appropriated in subsection (c) of this section.


--- Page 59 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1661
(c) The sum of $1,250,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Vermont
Veterans’ Home for sewage system and elevator upgrades.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$1,050,000.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$1,250,000.00
Total Appropriation – Section 6
$1,050,000.00 $2,300,000.00
Sec. 6. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 10 is amended to read:
Sec. 10. CLEAN WATER INITIATIVES
* * *
(e) The sum of $10,000,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency
of Natural Resources for the Department of Environmental Conservation for
clean water implementation projects. [Repealed.]
(f) In FY 2026 and FY 2027, any agency that receives funding from this
section shall consult with the State Treasurer to ensure that the projects are
capital eligible.
(g) The sum of $1,500,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Agriculture, Food and Markets for water quality grants and contracts.
(h)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Natural Resources for the Department of Environmental Conservation for the
following projects:
(1) Clean Water State Revolving Fund:
$1,577,600.00
(2) Municipal pollution control grants:
$3,922,400.00
(i) The sum of $200,000.00 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the Agency of
Natural Resources for the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation for
water quality improvements to forest access roads.
(j)
The following sums are appropriated in FY 2027 to the Vermont
Housing and Conservation Board for the following projects:
(1) Agricultural water quality projects:
$800,000.00
(2) Land conservation and water quality projects:
$2,000,000.00
* * *
Sec. 7. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 14 is amended to read:
Sec. 14. JUDICIARY
* * *


--- Page 60 ---
1662
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(c)
The sum of $1,720,818.84 is appropriated in FY 2027 to the
Department of Buildings and General Services for the Judiciary for the
Newport Courthouse project.
Appropriation – FY 2026
$5,075,910.00
Appropriation – FY 2027
$1,720,818.84
Total Appropriation – Section 14
$5,075,910.00 $6,796,728.84
* * * Reallocations * * *
Sec. 8. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 17 is amended to read:
Sec. 17. REALLOCATION AND REVERSION OF FUNDS; TRANSFER
OF FUNDS
(a) The following sums are reallocated appropriated to the Department of
Buildings and General Services from prior capital appropriations are
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act:
* * *
(12) of the amount appropriated in 2017 Acts and Resolves No. 84,
Sec. 13(b)(2), as added by 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 190, Sec. 10 (CJTC
East Cottage):
$43,190.08
(13) of the amounts appropriated in 2019 Acts and Resolves No. 42,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$1,624,241.12
(14) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 2(b) (various projects):
$393,854.32
(15) of the amount appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 3(a)(2) (women’s correctional facilities):
$97,890.12
(16) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$618,000.00
(17) of the amounts appropriated in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69,
Sec. 2(b) (various projects):
$350,420.67
(18) of the amounts appropriated in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69,
Sec. 2(c) (various projects):
$150,000.00
(19) of the amounts appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50,
Sec. 3(b)(1) (women’s correctional facilities, replacement):
$868,850.00
(b)
The following sums appropriated to the Agency of Commerce and
Community Development from prior capital appropriations are reallocated to
defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act:


--- Page 61 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1663
* * *
(3) of the amount appropriated in 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 50, Sec.
4(a)(4) (Unmarked Burial Fund):
$31,320.70
* * *
(h)
Of the amount appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the
Vermont Veterans’ Home in 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 113, Sec.
B.1103(a)(7) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 18(d)(7)
(design for the renovation of the Brandon and Cardinal units), $1,500,000.00
is reallocated reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this
act.
(i) Of the amount appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure subaccount
of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the Department of
Buildings and General Services in 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 113, Sec.
B.1103(a)(9) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(d)(10) (111 State Street; renovation of the stack area), $200,000.00 is
reallocated reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this act.
* * *
(n) Of the amount appropriated to the Vermont Veterans’ Home in 2023
Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 15(b)(2) (elevator upgrade), $500,000.00 is
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Sec. 6 of this act.
(o) Of the amount appropriated to the Enhanced 911 Board in 2017 Acts
and Resolves No. 84, Sec. 6(b)(9), as added by 2018 Acts and Resolves No.
190, Sec. 5 (Enhanced 911 Compliance Grants Program), $63,413.15 is
reallocated to defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act.
(p) Of the amount appropriated to the Agency of Natural Resources for
the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation in 2019 Acts and Resolves
No. 42, Sec. 11(j), as added by 2020 Acts and Resolves No. 139, Sec. 7
(State-owned forest and recreational access points), $0.03 is reallocated to
defray expenditures authorized in Secs. 2–16 of this act.
(q)
The following sums appropriated from the Capital Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the
Department of Buildings and General Services in 2023 Acts and Resolves
No. 78, Sec. B.1105(a) are reverted to defray expenditures authorized in Sec.
19 of this act:
(1) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(1) (planning, reuse, and contingency):
$119,114.60


--- Page 62 ---
1664
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(2) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(6) (120 State Street renovation):
$1,000,000.00
(3) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(8) (CJTC administration building and West Cottage):
$450,000.00
(4) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(10) (DCF short-term stabilization facility):
$372,557.10
(5) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(11) (Washington County Superior Courthouse in Barre):
$750,000.00
(6) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(13) (planning and design of the Rutland Field Station):
$250,000.00
(7) of the amount authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec.
18(c)(15) (EV charging stations):
$995,040.00
(r)
Of the amount
appropriated from the Capital
Infrastructure
subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential Investments to the
Department of Buildings and General Services in 2024 Acts and Resolves
No. 113, Sec. B.1103(a)(3) and authorized in 2023 Acts and Resolves No.
69, Sec. 18(d)(3), as amended by 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 162, Sec. 11
(120
State
Street
renovation),
$1,500,000.00
is
reverted
to
defray
expenditures authorized in Sec. 19 of this act.
Bonded Dollars
$5,074,938.48 $9,816,118.67
Cash
$1,700,000.00 $7,136,711.70
Total Reallocations, Reversions, and Transfers – Section 17
$6,774,938.48
$16,952,830.37
* * * Cash-Funded Project Authorizations * * *
Sec. 9. 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 19 is amended to read:
Sec. 19. FY 2026 AND 2027; CAPITAL PROJECTS; FY 2026 AND FY
2027 APPROPRIATIONS ACT ACTS; INTENT;
AUTHORIZATIONS
* * *
(b)
Intent.
It is the intent of the General Assembly to authorize certain
capital projects eligible for funding by 32 V.S.A. § 1001b in this act but
appropriate the funds for these projects in the FY 2026 and FY 2027
Appropriations Act Acts. It is also the intent of the General Assembly that the
FY 2026 and FY 2027 Appropriations Act appropriate Acts transfer funds to
the Fund established in 32 V.S.A. § 1001b for projects in FY 2026 and FY
2027.


--- Page 63 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1665
(c)
Authorizations; Capital Infrastructure subaccount.
In FY 2026,
spending authority for the following capital projects from the Capital
Infrastructure subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential
Investments are authorized as follows:
* * *
(7) to the Vermont Veterans’ Home for the design and construction of
the American unit and sprinkler system installation:
$1,500,000.00
* * *
(f)
Authorizations; Capital Infrastructure subaccount.
In FY 2027,
spending authority for the following capital projects from the Capital
Infrastructure subaccount of the Cash Fund for Capital and Essential
Investments are authorized as follows:
(1) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for statewide
major maintenance:
$1,781,173.60
(2) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for statewide
physical security enhancements:
$225,000.00
(3)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Asa
Bloomer roof replacement:
$3,600,000.00
(4)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Rutland
multimodal garage renovation:
$900,000.00
(5) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for Burlington,
32 Cherry St. parking garage repairs:
$3,000,000.00
(6) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for HVAC upgrades at correctional facilities:
$1,050,000.00
(7) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for statewide correctional facilities security upgrades:
$225,000.00
(8) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for St. Johnsbury, Northeast Correctional Complex
(NECC) door control system replacements:
$2,700,000.00
(9) to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the Agency
of Human Services for the Northern State Correctional Facility boiler
replacement:
$1,000,000.00


--- Page 64 ---
1666
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(10)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for Newport, Northern State Correctional Facility
sprinkler system upgrades:
$500,000.00
(11)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for maintenance, replacement, and renovations at
the Chittenden Regional Correctional Facility or other correctional facilities
utilized in response to overcrowding for the incarcerated women’s population:
$500,000.00
(12)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Agency of Human Services for the Department for Children and Families’
youth short-term stabilization facility:
$772,557.10
(13)
to the Department of Environmental Conservation for the State
match for federal Drinking Water State Revolving Fund:
$2,498,000.00
(14) to the Department of Environmental Conservation for Waterbury
Dam Penstock project cost overruns:
$150,000.00
(15)
to the Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation for park
infrastructure and rehabilitation, improvement, and three-acre rule compliance:
$400,000.00
(16) to the Department of Fish and Wildlife for dam maintenance and
safety planning:
$200,000.00
(17)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Department of Public Safety for an Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) facility:
$500,000.00
(18)
to the Judiciary for the Essex County Courthouse connector
project:
$500,000.00
(19)
to the Department of Buildings and General Services for the
Judiciary
for
renovations
at
the
White
River
Junction
courthouse:
$1,600,000.00
(20) to the Vermont Historical Society for the replacement of a climate
control unit:
$566,724.00
(21)
to the Department of Corrections to work with the Agency of
Digital Services to develop a plan for providing network connectivity in State
correctional facilities that modernizes processes and reduces reliance on paper;
improves staff efficiency and addresses workforce challenges, such as staff
retention; supports real-time data-driven operations; lays the foundation for
future capabilities, such as wearable technology and mobile device–supported
operations; and ensures secure, compliance connectivity in key facilities, each
as outlined in the Business Transformation Project Recommendations Report
issued by the Agency:
$750,000.00


--- Page 65 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1667
* * * Policy * * *
* * * Department of Environmental Conservation * * *
Sec. 10. 24 V.S.A. § 4752 is amended to read:
§ 4752. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(21)
“Eligible mobile home park water system” means a privately
owned nonprofit community type system that serves a majority of the users
who reside in a nonprofit- or resident-owned mobile home park registered with
the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to
10 V.S.A. § 6254.
Sec. 11. 24 V.S.A. § 4771 is amended to read:
§ 4771. CONDITIONS OF LOAN AGREEMENT
(a) VEDA may make loans to applicants on behalf of the State for one or
more of the purposes set forth in subsection 4770(b) of this title. Each such
loan shall be made subject to the following conditions:
(1) The loan shall be evidenced by a note payable over a term not to
exceed 30 years.
Repayment shall commence not later than one year after
completion of the project for which loan funds have been applied.
(2)
The loan shall be secured with assets as determined by VEDA.
VEDA may also require that the applicant assign all or a portion of the water
system revenues as security for the loan, or may require the establishment of a
reserve fund.
(3) The loan recipient shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
repayment of the loan which may include a pledge of revenue from user
charges, tap fees, development charges, and pledges of accounts receivable and
the proceeds therefrom.
(4)
The rate of interest charged for loans shall be set by the State
Treasurer, taking into consideration prevailing borrowing rates available to
similarly situated applicants from private lenders and administrative fees to be
charged to applicants.
VEDA, in cooperation with the Secretary, shall
periodically recommend interest rates to be set by the State Treasurer which
that are the lowest practicable rates consistent with maintaining the long-term
integrity of the Fund. The interest rate set by the State Treasurer may be less
than the prevailing borrowing rates available to similarly situated applicants
from private lenders, but not less than zero percent.


--- Page 66 ---
1668
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(5)(A)
Notwithstanding subdivision subdivisions (1) and (4) of this
subsection (a), a privately owned nonprofit community type system may
qualify for a 40-year loan term at an interest rate, plus administrative fee, to be
established by the Secretary of Natural Resources that shall be not more than
three percent or less than minus three percent, provided that the applicant
system meets the income level and annual household user cost requirements of
a disadvantaged municipality as defined in subdivision 4752(12)(A) of this
title or is an eligible mobile home park water system, and at least 80 percent of
the residential units served by the water system is continuously occupied by
local residents and at least 80 percent of the water produced is for residential
use.
(B) [Repealed.]
(C)
If the Secretary determines that a privately owned nonprofit
community type system qualifies for a loan under this subdivision (5), the
Secretary shall certify the loan term and interest rate to VEDA. In no instance
shall the Except as applied to an eligible mobile home park water system, the
Secretary shall not certify an annual interest rate, plus an administrative fee, be
pursuant to this subdivision (C) that is less than is necessary to achieve an
annual household user cost equal to one percent of the median household
income of the applicant water system computed in the same manner as
prescribed in subdivision 4763c(b)(2) of this title.
* * *
* * * Division for Historic Preservation * * *
Sec. 12. 22 V.S.A. § 725 is amended to read:
§ 725. ACCEPTANCE AND SOLICITATION OF FUNDS OR GIFTS FOR
HISTORIC SITES AND VERMONT ARCHAEOLOGY HERITAGE
CENTER
(a) With Notwithstanding 3 V.S.A. § 1203g and with the approval of the
Secretary of Administration, the State Historic Preservation Officer may
accept and solicit grants, gifts, donations, loans, or other things of value on
behalf of the Division for Historic Preservation for use by the Division for
Historic Preservation in establishing and maintaining displays and exhibits at
any historic site and at the Vermont Archaeology Heritage Center, or restoring
any historic site maintained and developed under section 723 of this chapter.
(b) In any request for approval of solicitation under this section, the State
Historic Preservation Officer shall specify the project and fundraising goal for
which the Officer is undertaking fundraising.


--- Page 67 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1669
* * * Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation * * *
Sec. 13. DEPARTMENT OF FORESTS, PARKS AND RECREATION;
LITTLE RIVER STATE PARK LEASE
(a)
Notwithstanding
29
V.S.A.
§ 166,
in
fiscal
year
2027,
the
Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation is authorized to enter into a
long-term lease with Vermont Huts Association Ltd. for the use of a structure
at Little River State Park and the land on which the structure is located,
provided that the lease specifies:
(1) the term of 20 years with an option to renew for an additional two
10-year terms at the Commissioner’s discretion;
(2) the fee or fee formula to be used to compensate the State;
(3) conditions on the use of the structure, including the boundaries of
the land and structure to be leased;
(4)
that Vermont Huts Association Ltd. shall secure insurance and be
subject to an indemnification clause consistent with Attachment C, Standard
State Provisions for Contracts and Grants, approved by the Agency of
Administration in Administrative Bulletin 3.5;
(5) provisions for the termination of the lease;
(6)
requirements for the operation and maintenance of the leased
structure and lands, including responsibility for the costs of maintenance;
(7) how any conflict between the parties shall be resolved; and
(8)
that a contract between the Department and Vermont Huts
Association Ltd., executed in accordance with the Standard State Provisions
for Contracts and Grants set forth in Administrative Bulletin 3.5 of the Agency
of Administration, be required for the relocation and reconstruction of the
Goodell House located at Little River State Park.
(b) The Commissioner of Forests, Parks and Recreation shall report to the
Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and Institutions and Senate
Committee on Institutions with a report on the status of the lease negotiations
under this section on or before August 15, 2026, and immediately prior to
execution of any related lease agreement and shall provide to the Chairs the
lease agreement promptly following execution.


--- Page 68 ---
1670
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
* * * Department of Buildings and General Services * * *
Sec. 14. SOUTHERN STATE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY; PROPERTY
TRANSFER
(a) Notwithstanding 29 V.S.A. § 166, the Commissioner of Buildings and
General Services is authorized to transfer to the Town of Springfield a portion
of
the
Southern
State
Correctional
Facility
property
consisting
of
approximately 22.93 acres to be used for municipal purposes, including
economic development as an industrial parcel, provided that the Commissioner
may transfer the property only if:
(1) the State obtains any State or local zoning or subdivision approvals
required for transfer;
(2) the State and the Town negotiate updates to the 1999 Agreement to:
(A)
establish responsibility for the maintenance and upkeep of the
access road and the water and sewer service lines for the Facility and the
transferred property; and
(B) mitigate impacts to the Springfield community; and
(3) the transferred property does not include any brownfields.
(b)
If the Town has not begun developing the transferred property for
purposes of economic development by the end of March 2030, the Town shall
consult with the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services to examine
alternative uses for the property.
Sec. 15. REPEALS
(a) 2024 Acts and Resolves No. 162, Sec. 23 (Southern State Correctional
Facility; transfer of parcel) is repealed.
(b)
Sec. 14 of this act (Southern State Correctional Facility; property
transfer) is repealed on July 1, 2030.
Sec. 16. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 69, Sec. 22(a) is amended to read:
(a)(1)
110 State Street.
Notwithstanding 29 V.S.A. § 166(b), the The
Commissioner of Buildings and General Services is authorized to sell the
property located at 110 State Street in the City of Montpelier, provided that the
Commissioner includes in any contract for sale appropriate interior and
exterior protective covenants developed in consultation with the Division for
Historic Preservation and the Vermont
Advisory
Council
on
Historic
Preservation pursuant to 22 V.S.A. § 743. The Commissioner shall first offer
in writing to the City the right to purchase the property.


--- Page 69 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1671
(1) The City’s preferential right to purchase the property authorized in
this subsection shall terminate unless the City submits a written notification to
the Commissioner of its intent to purchase the property on or before October
15, 2023.
(2)
If the City submits a notification of its intent to purchase the
property pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection, the City shall submit a
written offer to the Commissioner not later than June 1, 2024. In the event the
City fails to submit a written offer by June 1, 2024, then the City’s preferential
right to purchase the property shall terminate and the Commissioner is
authorized to sell the property to another party The Commissioner of Buildings
and General Services shall provide to the Chairs of the House Committee on
Corrections and Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions copies
of any related request for proposal and any executed contract for sale of 110
State Street in the City of Montpelier promptly after each becomes available.
(3)
It is the intent of the General Assembly to ensure that 110 State
Street in the City of Montpelier is sold at fair market value; that historic
attributes of the property are protected for future generations; that the Chairs
of the House Committee on Corrections and Institutions and the Senate
Committee on Institutions receive timely notice of status updates on the
disposition of the property; and that the initial purchaser of the property
provides notification of any intent to sell to the Secretary of Administration
and the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services, who shall then
promptly notify the Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and
Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions of the potential sale.
Sec. 17. CHITTENDEN REGIONAL CORRECTIONAL FACILITY
Among the uses of the funds appropriated in 2025 Acts and Resolves No.
33, Secs. 3(b)(7) and 19(f)(11), as amended by this act, the Department of
Buildings and General Services shall prioritize repairs of bathrooms, showers,
and flooring at the Chittenden Regional Correctional Facility.
If the
Department of Buildings and General Services applies funds to other
correctional facilities to respond to overcrowding at the Chittenden Regional
Correctional Facility, the Commissioner of Buildings and General Services and
the Commissioner of Corrections shall provide an overview of the use of funds
to the Joint Legislative Justice Oversight Committee at the Committee’s
regularly scheduled meetings in calendar year 2026.
* * * Agency of Human Services * * *
Sec. 18. HIGH-END SYSTEM FACILITIES FOR YOUTH
(a)
At the August, October, and December 2026 meetings of the Joint
Legislative Justice Oversight Committee, the Departments for Children and
Families and of Buildings and General Services shall report on their plan to
develop the Green Mountain Youth Facility.


--- Page 70 ---
1672
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, before the
Departments for Children and Families and of Buildings and General Services
approve design documents for construction and prior to approval of the lease
for the facility, the Department of Buildings and General Services shall submit
their approved design to the House Committees on Corrections and Institutions
and on Human Services and the Senate Committees on Institutions and on
Health and Welfare.
At the same time, the Department for Children and
Families shall submit a draft operating budget.
* * * Department of Corrections and Agency of Digital Services * * *
Sec. 19. REPORT; NETWORK CONNECTIVITY IN STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES
The Commissioner of Corrections and the State Chief Information Officer
of Digital Services, in consultation with the Commissioner of Buildings and
General Services, shall report to the Joint Legislative Justice Oversight
Committee at each scheduled meeting of the Committee in calendar year 2026
on the plan for providing network connectivity in State correctional facilities
authorized pursuant to 2025 Acts and Resolves No. 33, Sec. 19(f)(21),
including any prioritization and schedule.
* * * Stormwater Utilities * * *
Sec. 20. 24 V.S.A. § 4414(9) is amended to read:
(9) Stormwater management and control. Any municipality may adopt
bylaws to implement stormwater management and control consistent with the
program developed by the Secretary of Natural Resources pursuant to 10
V.S.A. § 1264. The creation of a regional stormwater utility under statute or
rules of the Agency of Natural Resources shall not prevent a municipality from
regulating stormwater under this subdivision, including adoption by the
municipality
of
a
bylaw
establishing
a
municipal
stormwater
utility.
Municipalities shall not charge an impervious surface fee or other stormwater
fee under this subdivision or under other provisions of this title on property
regulated under the Required Agricultural Practices for discharges of
agricultural waste or agricultural nonpoint source pollution.
Sec. 21. 24 V.S.A. § 3626 is added to read:
§ 3626. MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY TO AUTHORIZE AND OPERATE
STORMWATER UTILITY
The creation of a regional stormwater utility under statute or rules of the
Agency of Natural Resources shall not prevent a municipality from regulating
stormwater under this chapter, including adoption by the municipality of a
bylaw authorizing the operation of a municipal stormwater utility that
establishes an assessment on an equivalent residential unit or impervious
surface.


--- Page 71 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
1673
* * * General Assembly * * *
Sec. 22. STATE HOUSE; ENTRYWAY DESIGN; SPECIAL COMMITTEE
(a)
A special committee consisting of the Joint Legislative Management
Committee and the Chairs of the House Committee on Corrections and
Institutions and the Senate Committee on Institutions (special committee) is
hereby established.
The special committee is authorized to meet to review,
approve, or recommend alterations to the State House entryway design at a
regularly scheduled Joint Legislative Management Committee meeting.
(b) The special committee shall be entitled to per diem and expenses as
provided in 2 V.S.A. § 23.
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 23. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on passage.
SEN. WENDY K. HARRISON
SEN. ROBERT PLUNKETT
SEN. JOHN BENSON
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. ALICE M. EMMONS
REP. MARY A. MORRISSEY
REP. BRIAN MINIER
Committee on the part of the House
Thereupon, the question, Shall the Senate accept and adopt the report of the
Committee of Conference?, was decided in the affirmative.
Rules Suspended; Bills Messaged
On motion of Senator Baruth, the rules were suspended, and the following
bills were ordered messaged to the House forthwith:
H. 294.
An act relating to telecommunications services and wages in
correctional facilities.
H. 567. An act relating to unclaimed property, State retirement systems,
and capital debt.
H. 935. An act relating to emergency management.
H. 942. An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects.
H. 952. An act relating to capital construction and State bonding budget
adjustment.


--- Page 72 ---
1674
JOURNAL OF THE SENATE
Message from the House No. 82
A message was received from the House of Representatives by Ms.
Courtney Reckord, its Second Assistant Clerk, as follows:
Mr. President:
I am directed to inform the Senate that:
The House has considered a bill originating in the Senate of the following
title:
S. 278. An act relating to cannabis.
And has passed the same in concurrence with proposal of amendment in the
adoption of which the concurrence of the Senate is requested.
The Governor has informed the House that on May 27, 2026, he approved
and signed bills originating in the House of the following titles:
H. 635.
An act relating to eliminating Department of Corrections
supervisory fees.
H. 778. An act relating to dam safety.
Adjournment
On motion of Senator Baruth, the Senate adjourned until ten o’clock in the
morning.
