STATE: Vermont
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/Documents/2026/Docs/CALENDAR/sc260528.pdf?20260527065804
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/33/019/01999

--- Page 1 ---
Senate Calendar
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2026
SENATE CONVENES AT: 10:00 A.M.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ACTION CALENDAR
NEW BUSINESS
Second Reading
Favorable
H. 957 An act relating to approval of amendments to the charter of the
Town of Williston
Government Operations Report - Sen. Clarkson ..................................4554
House Proposal of Amendment
S. 190 An act relating to the Green Mountain Care Board, reference-based
pricing, and studying the creation of a Public Employee Health Benefit
Authority
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4554
S. 323 An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4562
Report of Committee of Conference
H. 944 An act relating to the fiscal year 2027 Transportation Program
and miscellaneous changes to laws related to transportation
Committee of Conference Report ........................................................4584
Addendum to Committee of Conference Report ................................. 4622
NOTICE CALENDAR
House Proposal of Amendment
S. 71 An act relating to consumer data privacy and online surveillance
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4623
S. 193 An act relating to establishing a forensic facility for certain criminal
justice-involved persons
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4657
S. 278 An act relating to cannabis
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4686


--- Page 2 ---
S. 313 An act relating to transforming Vermont’s career technical education
system
House Proposal of Amendment ...........................................................4703
Report of Committee of Conference
H. 639 An act relating to genetic data privacy
Committee of Conference Report ........................................................4712


--- Page 3 ---
- 4554 -
ORDERS OF THE DAY
ACTION CALENDAR
NEW BUSINESS
Second Reading
Favorable
H. 957.
An act relating to approval of amendments to the charter of the Town of
Williston.
Reported favorably by Senator Clarkson for the Committee on
Government Operations.
(Committee vote: 5-0-0)
(No House amendments)
House Proposal of Amendment
S. 190.
An act relating to the Green Mountain Care Board, reference-based pricing,
and studying the creation of a Public Employee Health Benefit Authority.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Reference-Based Pricing * * *
Sec. 1. 18 V.S.A. § 9376(e) is amended to read:
(e) Reference-based pricing.
(1)(A)
The Board shall establish reference-based prices that represent
the maximum amounts that hospitals shall accept as payment in full for items
provided and services delivered in Vermont. The Board may also implement
reference-based pricing for services delivered outside a hospital by setting the
minimum amounts that shall be paid for items provided and services delivered
by nonhospital-based health care professionals. The Board shall consult with
health insurers, hospitals, other health care professionals as applicable, the
Office of the Health Care Advocate, and the Agency of Human Services in
developing reference-based prices pursuant to this subsection (e), including on
ways to achieve all-payer alignment on the design and implementation of
reference-based pricing.


--- Page 4 ---
- 4555 -
(B) The Board shall utilize reference-based pricing to reduce hospital
prices incrementally until they are equal to national median prices by hospital
type by calendar year 2030.
The Board shall use the highest quality,
nonpartisan data demonstrating hospital prices as a percentage of Medicare to
evaluate progress toward reducing hospital prices in Vermont to the national
median.
(C) The Board shall implement reference-based pricing in a manner
that does not allow health care professionals to charge or collect from patients
or health insurers any amount in excess of the reference-based amount
established by the Board.
* * *
(3)(A) The Board shall begin implementing reference-based pricing as
soon as practicable but not later than hospital fiscal year 2027 by establishing
the maximum amounts that Vermont hospitals shall accept as payment in full
for items provided and services delivered.
After initial implementation, the
Board shall review the reference-based prices for each hospital annually as part
of the hospital budget review process set forth in chapter 221, subchapter 7 of
this title.
(B)
The Board, in collaboration with the Department of Financial
Regulation, shall monitor the implementation of reference-based pricing to
ensure that any decreases in amounts paid to hospitals also result in decreases
in health insurance premiums. The Board shall post its findings regarding the
alignment between price decreases and premium decreases annually on its
website.
(C)(i) For provider contracts entered into, amended, or renewed on
or after January 1, 2028, each hospital and health insurer shall begin
expressing as a percentage of Medicare or of another benchmark, if another
benchmark is deemed appropriate by the Green Mountain Care Board, the
rates for items and services identified pursuant to a collaborative process
between the Board and representatives of Vermont hospitals.
(ii)
When making public the charges for items and services
pursuant to 45 C.F.R. Part 180, each hospital shall include in its machine-
readable files pricing information shown as a percentage of Medicare rates, as
well as in dollars and cents, disaggregated by payer and by plan.
(iii) For purposes of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subdivision
(3)(C), a hospital may express rates as a percentage of Medicare based on the
actual reimbursement amounts the hospital receives from Medicare for items
provided and services delivered to Medicare beneficiaries until such time as


--- Page 5 ---
- 4556 -
the Green Mountain Care Board adopts a rule establishing the methodology for
determining Medicare rates for use as a benchmark in establishing reference-
based prices pursuant to this subsection (e).
(D)(i)
Each hospital shall apply for, obtain, and use a unique
National Provider Identifier (NPI) on all claims filed after October 1, 2027, for
reimbursement or payment of items provided and services delivered at an off-
campus department of the hospital that is distinct from the NPI used for
services delivered at the main hospital campus or at any other off-campus
hospital department.
(ii) As used in this subdivision (D):
(I) “Campus” has the same meaning as in 42 C.F.R. § 413.65.
(II) “Off-campus” means a facility located more than 250 yards
from the main hospital campus.
* * *
Sec. 2. LIMITATIONS ON HOSPITAL REIMBURSEMENTS FOR
QUALIFIED HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS AND PLANS
COVERING SCHOOL EMPLOYEES FOR HOSPITAL FISCAL
YEAR 2027
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Health benefit association” has the same meaning as in 24 V.S.A.
§ 4947.
(2)(A) “Medicare adjusted base rate” means the standardized Medicare
payment amount for a hospital inpatient, outpatient, or professional service as
determined under the Medicare program, calculated prior to the application of
any hospital-specific, patient-specific, or policy-based payment adjustments
and reflecting only the core payment methodology used by the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to establish baseline payment levels, which
include adjustments for geographic factors such as wages.
(B)
For items provided and services delivered at a critical access
hospital, the Medicare adjusted base rate shall be determined under the
applicable Medicare prospective payment system, using the Medicare payment
methodology that would apply if the hospital were not designated as a critical
access hospital.
(3)
“Qualified health benefit plan” has the same meaning as in
33 V.S.A. § 1802.
(4) “Registered carrier” has the same meaning as in 33 V.S.A. § 1811.


--- Page 6 ---
- 4557 -
(5) “School employee” has the same meaning as in 16 V.S.A. § 2101.
(b)
Notwithstanding any provision of 18 V.S.A. § 9375(b)(1)(A) to the
contrary, for hospital fiscal year 2027, the Green Mountain Care Board may
order hospitals to reduce their commercial reimbursement rates for qualified
health benefit plans and for health benefit plans offered to school employees
by a health benefit association pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 4947 based on a
percentage of the Medicare adjusted base rate determined by the Board for
each item provided and service delivered in Vermont to enrollees in these
plans.
(c)(1) A registered carrier or health benefit association shall not reimburse
or agree to reimburse a hospital more than the percentage of the Medicare
adjusted base rate specified by the Green Mountain Care Board pursuant to
subsection (b) of this section, if any, for the applicable hospital fiscal year for
any item provided or service delivered in Vermont to an enrollee in a qualified
health benefit plan or a health benefit plan offered to school employees by a
health benefit association.
(2)
In the event that a registered carrier or health benefit association
reimburses a hospital for an item or service on a capitated or other non-fee-for-
service basis, the carrier or association shall ensure that its reimbursement
method is adjusted to account for the reimbursement limit set forth in
subdivision (1) of this subsection.
(d) A hospital or hospital provider that is reimbursed in accordance with
subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not charge or collect from the
patient any additional amounts other than the cost-sharing amounts authorized
by the terms of the health benefit plan.
(e) To the extent that a hospital is required by the Board’s budget order to
reduce its commercial reimbursement rates by amounts greater than the
reductions achieved pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the hospital shall
reduce its commercial reimbursement rates that exceed 500 percent of the
Medicare adjusted base rate or, if the hospital does not have any commercial
reimbursement rates that exceed 500 percent of the Medicare adjusted base
rate, by reducing its commercial reimbursement rates that are the highest in
relation to the Medicare adjusted base rate.
(f)(1) In its reviews of premium rates in accordance with 8 V.S.A. § 4026,
the Green Mountain Care Board shall ensure that the limitations on
reimbursements established in this section are appropriately reflected in the
premium rates for qualified health benefit plans.


--- Page 7 ---
- 4558 -
(2) In its review of premium rates in accordance with 8 V.S.A. § 4026
and 24 V.S.A. chapter 121, subchapter 6, the Department of Financial
Regulation shall ensure that the limitations on reimbursements established in
this section are appropriately reflected in the premium rates for health benefit
plans offered to school employees by a health benefit association.
Sec. 3. [Deleted.]
* * * Hospital Outsourcing * * *
Sec. 4. HOSPITAL OUTSOURCING; HOSPITAL BUDGETS;
PROVIDER TAXES; REPORT
(a) For fiscal year 2027 hospital budgets, the Green Mountain Care Board
shall direct hospitals to provide such information as the Board may require
regarding the clinical services that the hospital outsources to external entities.
(b) On or before January 15, 2027, the Green Mountain Care Board, after
consulting with hospitals and their contracted independent providers and
assessing the impact of outsourcing on access to and the quality and
availability of care, shall provide findings and recommendations regarding
hospital outsourcing to the House Committees on Health Care and on Ways
and Means and the Senate Committees on Health and Welfare and on Finance.
In addition, the Board, in collaboration with the Agency of Human Services,
shall report on the extent to which hospital outsourcing affects provider tax
revenue and recommend any necessary modifications to 33 V.S.A. chapter 19,
subchapter 2 to appropriately reflect expenditures for patient care at Vermont
hospitals.
* * * Section 1332 Waiver for Reinsurance Program * * *
Sec. 4a. REINSURANCE; AUTHORIZATION TO PURSUE SECTION
1332 WAIVER
The Department of Vermont Health Access, in consultation with the
Department of Financial Regulation, is authorized to submit a State Innovation
Waiver pursuant to Section 1332 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-148, as amended by the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-152, to establish a
program for reinsurance and seek federal pass-through funding of amounts
attributable to premium tax credits under 26 U.S.C. § 36B.
* * * Excluding Reference-Based Pricing from Scope of Health Care
Professional Bargaining * * *
Sec. 5. 18 V.S.A. § 9409 is amended to read:
§ 9409. HEALTH CARE PROVIDER BARGAINING GROUPS


--- Page 8 ---
- 4559 -
(a) The Green Mountain Care Board may approve the creation of one or
more health care provider bargaining groups, consisting of health care
providers who choose to participate.
A bargaining group is authorized to
negotiate on behalf of all participating providers with the Secretary of
Administration, the Secretary of Human Services, the Green Mountain Care
Board, or the Commissioner of Labor with respect to any matter in this
chapter; chapter 13, 219, 220, or 222 of this title; 21 V.S.A. chapter 9; and 33
V.S.A. chapters 18 and 19 with respect to provider regulation, provider
reimbursement,
administrative
simplification,
information
technology,
workforce planning, or quality of health care.
(b)
The Green Mountain Care Board shall adopt by rule criteria for
forming and approving bargaining groups and criteria and procedures for
negotiations authorized by this section.
(c) The rules relating to negotiations shall include a nonbinding arbitration
process to assist in the resolution of disputes. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of Administration, the
Secretary of Human Services, the Green Mountain Care Board, or the
Commissioner of Labor to reject the recommendation or decision of the
arbiter.
(d)
Notwithstanding any provisions of this section to the contrary, the
Green Mountain Care Board shall not be required to negotiate with a provider
bargaining group or engage in a nonbinding arbitration process in connection
with the Board’s establishment of reference-based prices in accordance with
subdivision 9375(b)(1)(A), subdivision 9375(b)(5), or section 9376 of this
title.
* * * Appeals of Green Mountain Care Board Orders * * *
Sec. 6. 18 V.S.A. § 9381 is amended to read:
§ 9381. APPEALS
(a)
The Green Mountain Care Board shall adopt procedures for
administrative appeals of its actions, orders, or other determinations.
Such
procedures shall that provide for the issuance of a final order and for the
creation of a record sufficient to serve as the basis for judicial review of the
Board’s final actions, orders, and other determinations pursuant to subsection
(b) of this section.
(b) Any person aggrieved by a final action, order, or other determination of
the Green Mountain Care Board may, upon exhaustion of all administrative
appeals available pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, appeal to the
Supreme Court pursuant to the Vermont Rules of Appellate Procedure.


--- Page 9 ---
- 4560 -
* * *
* * * Data Infrastructure * * *
Sec. 7. 18 V.S.A. § 9411 is amended to read:
§ 9411. INTERACTIVE PRICE TRANSPARENCY DASHBOARD AND
HEALTH SYSTEM PERFORMANCE TOOL
(a)(1)
The Green Mountain Care Board shall develop and maintain a
public, interactive, Internet-based internet-based price transparency dashboard
that allows consumers to compare health care prices for certain health care
services across the State.
Using data from the Vermont Healthcare Claims
Uniform Reporting and Evaluation System (VHCURES) established pursuant
to section 9410 of this title, the dashboard shall provide the range of actual
allowed amounts for selected health care services, showing both the amount
paid by the health insurer or other payer and the amount of the member’s
responsibility, and shall allow the consumer to sort the information by
geographic location, by health care provider, by payer type, and by the specific
health care procedure or health care service. The Board shall provide a link on
the dashboard to the statewide comparative hospital quality report published
by the Commissioner of Health pursuant to section 9405b of this title.
(b)(2)
The Board shall update the information in the interactive price
transparency dashboard at least annually.
(b)(1) The Board shall develop and maintain a public, interactive tool that
displays information on health system performance, including information
regarding quality, access, and affordability.
(2)
The Board shall update the information in the health system
performance tool on a regular basis, to the extent operationally feasible.
Sec. 8. IMPLEMENTATION OF HEALTH SYSTEM PERFORMANCE
TOOL
The Green Mountain Care Board shall develop the health system
performance tool described in 18 V.S.A. § 9411(b), as added by Sec. 8 of this
act, only if the Board receives sufficient funding from the federal government
or another source for this purpose.
* * * Critical Access Hospitals; Medicare Outpatient Cost Sharing * * *
Sec. 9. CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITALS; MEDICARE OUTPATIENT
COST SHARING
(a)
The General Assembly and the Green Mountain Care Board have
recently become aware of a federal requirement that Medicare beneficiaries


--- Page 10 ---
- 4561 -
must bear financial responsibility for 20 percent of the amount charged for
outpatient services delivered by critical access hospitals, not 20 percent of the
amount that Medicare pays for the service.
While the General Assembly
understands that it cannot invalidate this federal requirement, it also recognizes
both that this requirement has a significant, unfair, and negative financial
impact on Medicare beneficiaries in the State’s most rural communities and
that Vermont’s critical access hospitals are some of the State’s most financially
vulnerable health care facilities.
It is the intent of this section to provide
information to Vermont’s seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries about the
federal requirement while a working group of interested stakeholders
endeavors to develop appropriate and enduring solutions that do not undermine
the financial sustainability of our critical access hospitals and that comply with
federal law.
(b) On or before September 1, 2026, each critical access hospital shall do
all of the following:
(1)
Identify all the outpatient services for which the amount that the
hospital charges equals five or more times the Medicare allowed amount for
that service.
(2) Post prominently on its website and in outpatient departments of the
hospital a disclosure about the federal requirement that Medicare beneficiaries
must pay 20 percent of the charge for outpatient services at critical access
hospitals, that Medicare beneficiaries may be able to receive care with reduced
out-of-pocket costs from other providers, and how to contact the hospital’s
patient financial assistance department for more information.
The hospital
shall file its proposed disclosure materials with the Green Mountain Care
Board for the Board’s approval prior to posting.
(c) To the extent that the Green Mountain Care Board engages in efforts to
address the Medicare outpatient cost-sharing issue in hospital fiscal year 2027,
the Board shall consider any proposals from the critical access hospitals and
other interested stakeholders and shall ensure that its actions are consistent
with ongoing hospital transformation efforts and the principles for health care
reform expressed in 18 V.S.A. § 9371.
* * * Effective Date * * *
Sec. 10. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on passage.
and that after passage the title of the bill be amended to read:
“An act
relating to reference-based pricing and the Green Mountain Care Board”


--- Page 11 ---
- 4562 -
S. 323.
An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Milk Producers * * *
Sec. 1. 6 V.S.A. § 2752 is amended to read:
§ 2752. REFUSAL TO PURCHASE; HEARING; SECRETARY’S ORDER
(a) A handler doing business in this State who has a contract either verbal
or written with a producer residing in this State for the purchase of the
producer’s dairy products shall not refuse to purchase them from the producer
except for violations of the sanitary rules or standards applicable to the market
in which the dairy product is sold or marketed, without being deemed guilty of
unfair discrimination. In the event that the refusal is to be based upon reasons
of oversupply or other reasonable grounds, the refusal shall not become
operative until the purchaser has given the producer at least 90 days’ notice of
intention to refuse the producer’s product on these grounds, which shall be
particularly set forth in writing so that the producer may be fully appraised of
the refusal.
(b)
If the producer desires to question the existence or validity of such
grounds of refusal, he or she the producer may do so within 90 days after
receiving the notice or refusal by requesting the Secretary of Agriculture, Food
and Markets for a hearing, and the Secretary is hereby given jurisdiction to
hear and determine the question. The producer shall make complaints of such
contemplated refusal in writing to the Secretary, setting forth the substance of
the refusal notice and requesting to be heard thereon. The Secretary shall then
notify both the producer and the purchaser in writing, sent to them by
registered mail, of the time and place of hearing thereon.
The time of the
hearing shall not be less than 10 nor more than 30 days from the date of the
notice. Hearing shall be informal. Both parties shall have an opportunity to
produce evidence.
* * *
(d) If a request for a hearing is made by a purchaser producer, refusal of
the purchaser shall not become operative until hearing and decision in the
purchaser’s favor by the Secretary.
* * *
* * * Farm-to-School Program Contracts * * *


--- Page 12 ---
- 4563 -
Sec. 2. 6 V.S.A. § 4721 is amended to read:
§ 4721. LOCAL FOODS GRANT PROGRAM
(a) There is created in the Agency of Agriculture, Food and Markets the
Rozo McLaughlin Farm-to-School Program to execute, administer, and award
provide local grants or contracts for the purpose of helping Vermont schools
develop farm-to-school programs that will sustain relationships with local
farmers and producers, enrich the educational experience of students, improve
the health of Vermont children, and enhance Vermont’s agricultural economy.
(b) A school, a school district, a consortium of schools, a consortium of
school districts, a registered or licensed child care provider, or an organization
administering or assisting the development of farm-to-school programs may
apply to the Secretary of Agriculture, Food and Markets for a grant award or
contract to:
* * *
(c) The Secretaries of Agriculture, Food and Markets and of Education and
the Commissioner of Health, in consultation with farmers, child nutrition staff,
educators, organizations administering or assisting the development of farm-
to-school programs, and farm-to-school technical service providers, jointly
shall adopt procedures relating to the content of the grant application
applications or contract bids and the criteria for making awards.
* * *
(e) No award individual grant or contract shall be greater than 20 percent
of the total annual amount funds available for granting except that a grant an
award to the following entities may, at the discretion of the Secretary of
Agriculture, Food and Markets, exceed the cap:
(1) Farm-to-School service providers; or
(2)
school districts or consortiums of school districts that completed
merger under 2010 Acts and Resolves No. 153, 2012 Acts and Resolves No.
156, or 2015 Acts and Resolves No. 46 on or before July 1, 2019, provided
that the grant is funds are used for the purpose of expanding Farm-to-School
projects to additional schools within the new school district.
* * * Pest Control Compact Repeal and Pesticide Exam Requirements * * *
Sec. 3. REPEAL
6 V.S.A. chapter 83 (Pest Control Compact) is repealed on July 1, 2026.


--- Page 13 ---
- 4564 -
Sec. 4. 6 V.S.A. § 1112 is amended to read:
§ 1112. LICENSING PESTICIDE APPLICATORS; PESTICIDE
COMPANIES; DEALERS
(a) The Secretary may adopt rules requiring persons selling Class A and B
pesticides to be licensed under this chapter.
In addition, the Secretary may
adopt rules requiring companies that hire applicators or conduct pesticide
applications to be licensed and applicators who use pesticides to be certified
under this chapter. The Secretary may establish reasonable requirements for
obtaining licenses and certificates. The fees for dealers, licensed companies,
and applicator certificates under this chapter shall be as follows:
(1) Class A Dealer License—$50.00;
(2) Class B Dealer License—$50.00;
(3) Pesticide Company License—$75.00;
(4)
Commercial and, Noncommercial, and Government Applicator
Certification fee—$30.00 per category or subcategory with a maximum of
$120.00;
(5)
second and third time examination Examination fee for dealer
licenses and applicator certification—$25.00; and
(6) Private Applicator—$25.00; and
(7) State Government, Municipal, and Public Education Institution
Applicators—$30.00.
* * *
(e) There shall be no limitation on the frequency for retaking examinations
for
private,
commercial,
noncommercial,
or
government
applicator
certifications or dealer licenses.
* * * Seed Law Changes * * *
Sec. 5. 6 V.S.A. § 641 is amended to read:
§ 641. DEFINITIONS
(a) As used in this chapter:
(1)
“Agricultural seed” includes grass, forage, cereal, oil, fiber, and
other kinds of crop seeds commonly recognized as agricultural seeds, lawn
seeds, and combinations of such seeds, and may include noxious weed seeds
used as agricultural seed.


--- Page 14 ---
- 4565 -
(2) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, Food and Markets
or his or her the Secretary’s designee.
(3) “Agency” means the Agency of Agriculture, Food and Markets.
(4) “Flower seed” includes seed of herbaceous plants grown for their
blooms, ornamental foliage, or other ornamental parts and commonly known
and sold under the name of flower or wildflower seed in this State.
* * *
Sec. 6. 6 V.S.A. § 644 is amended to read:
§ 644. LABEL REQUIREMENTS FOR AGRICULTURAL, FLOWER, AND
VEGETABLE SEEDS
(a) Each container of agricultural, flower, and vegetable seeds that is sold
in this State for sowing purposes shall be labeled.
(1) All labels shall include:
* * *
(5) All bins and other bulk displays of agricultural, flower, grass, and
vegetable seeds, or mixtures of the described seeds, shall be labeled with the
same information that is required to be on containers of agricultural, flower, or
vegetable seeds as applicable.
* * *
Sec. 7. 6 V.S.A. § 647 is amended to read:
§ 647. ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
(a)
The Secretary may assess administrative penalties, not to exceed
$250.00 for each offense, in any case he or she the Secretary determines that a
person has committed any of the following violations:
(1)
sold seed products without paying the seed inspection fees for
hundredweight tonnage or seed registration fee under section 648 of this title;
(2) sold seed products within the State of Vermont found deficient in
guarantee analysis and labeling as defined by rule; or
(3) violated a stop sale order.
* * *
* * * Consolidate VACP within VEDA * * *
Sec. 8. TRANSFER OF VERMONT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PROGRAM


--- Page 15 ---
- 4566 -
10 V.S.A. chapter 16A (Vermont Agricultural Credit Program) is repealed
for the purpose of redesignation as 10 V.S.A. chapter 12, subchapter 16.
Sec. 9. 10 V.S.A. chapter 12, subchapter 16 is added to read:
Subchapter 16. Vermont Agricultural Credit Program
§ 280hh. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
(1)
“Agricultural facility” means land and rights in land, buildings,
structures, machinery, and equipment that is used for, or will be used for,
producing, processing, preparing, packaging, storing, distributing, marketing,
or transporting agricultural or forest products that have been at least partially
produced in this State, and working capital reasonably required to operate an
agricultural facility.
(2)
“Agricultural land” means real estate capable of supporting
commercial farming or forestry, or both.
(3) “Agricultural products” means crops, livestock, forest products, and
other farm or forest commodities produced as a result of farming or forestry
activities.
(4) “Authority” means the Vermont Economic Development Authority
established under section 213 of this title.
(5)
“Cash flow” means, on an annual basis, all income, receipts, and
revenues of the applicant or borrower from all sources and all expenses of the
applicant or borrower, including all debt service and other expenses.
(6) “Farm operation” means the cultivation of land or other uses of land
for the production of food, fiber, horticultural crops, silvicultural products,
orchard crops, maple syrup, Christmas trees, forest products, or forest crops;
the raising, boarding, and training of equines, and the raising of livestock; or
any combination of the foregoing activities. “Farm operation” also means the
storage, preparation, retail sale, and transportation of agricultural or forest
commodities accessory to the cultivation or use of such land.
“Farm
operation” also means the operation of an agritourism business on a farm
subject to regulation under the Required Agricultural Practices.
“Farm
operation” also means a business that provides specialty services to farmers,
such as foresters, farriers, hoof trimmers, or large animal veterinarians
operating or proposing to operate mobile units.
(7) “Farm ownership loan” means a loan to acquire or enlarge a farm or
agricultural facility; to make capital improvements, including construction,
purchase, and improvement of farm and agricultural facility buildings, farm


--- Page 16 ---
- 4567 -
worker housing, or farmer housing that can be made fixtures to the real estate;
to promote soil and water conservation and protection or provide housing; and
to refinance indebtedness incurred for farm ownership or operating loan
purposes, or both.
(8) “Farmer” means an individual directly engaged in the management
or operation of an agricultural facility or farm operation for whom the
agricultural facility or farm operation constitutes two or more of the following:
(A) is or is expected to become a significant source of the farmer’s
income;
(B) the majority of the farmer’s assets; and
(C) an occupation in which the farmer is actively engaged, either on
a seasonal or year-round basis.
(9) “Forest products business” means an enterprise that is engaged in
managing, harvesting,
trucking, processing,
manufacturing, crafting,
or
distributing forest products at least partially derived from Vermont forests.
(10) “Livestock” includes cattle, sheep, goats, equines, fallow deer, red
deer, reindeer, American bison, swine, poultry, pheasant, chukar partridge,
coturnix quail, ferrets, camelids and ratites, cultured trout propagated by
commercial trout farms, and bees.
(11) “Loan” means an operating loan or farm ownership loan, including
a financing lease, provided that such lease transfers the ownership of the leased
property to each lessee following the payment of all required lease payments
as specified in each lease agreement.
(12)
“Operating loan” means a loan to purchase livestock, farm or
forestry equipment, or fixtures to pay annual operating expenses of a farm
operation or agricultural facility; to pay loan closing costs; and to refinance
indebtedness incurred for farm ownership or operating loan purposes, or both.
(13)
“Program” means the Vermont Agricultural Credit Program
established by this subchapter.
(14)
“Project”
or
“agricultural
project”
means
the
creation,
establishment,
acquisition,
construction,
expansion,
improvement,
strengthening, reclamation, operation, or renovation of an agricultural facility
or farm operation.
§ 280ii. VERMONT AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROGRAM
(a)
The Vermont Agricultural Credit Program provides an alternative
source of sound and constructive credit to farmers and forest products


--- Page 17 ---
- 4568 -
businesses who are not having their credit needs fully met by conventional
agricultural credit sources at reasonable rates and terms; or, in the alternative,
the granting of the loan shall serve as a substantial inducement for the
establishment or expansion of an eligible agricultural or forestry project within
the State.
The Program is intended to meet, either in whole or in part, the
credit needs of eligible agricultural facilities and farm and forest operations in
fulfillment of one or more of the purposes listed in this subsection by making
direct loans and participating in loans made by other agricultural credit
providers:
(1)
to
encourage
diversification,
cooperative
farming,
and
the
development of innovative techniques for farming and forest products
businesses;
(2)
to increase energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption in
agricultural facilities, including the construction of water pollution control
facilities that implement best management practices for farm waste abatement
pursuant to 6 V.S.A. chapter 215;
(3) to encourage innovative and diversified processing, marketing, and
distribution of Vermont agricultural products;
(4) to assist beginning farmers to start new farms and new agricultural
facilities to commence or strengthen their operations;
(5) to assist or financially strengthen existing farms; and
(6)
to refinance loans incurred by eligible borrowers for any of the
purposes enumerated in subdivisions (1)–(5) of this subsection.
(b)
No borrower shall be approved for a loan from the Authority that
would result in the aggregate principal balances outstanding of all loans to that
borrower exceeding $5,000,000.00.
§ 280jj. GENERAL POWERS
(a) The Authority shall have the powers necessary to carry out the purposes
and provisions of this Program and subchapter, including those general powers
conferred on the Authority in section 216 of this title.
(b) The Authority shall have the powers necessary to dissolve the Vermont
Agricultural Credit Corporation in accordance with 11B V.S.A. chapter 14.
Upon dissolution of the Vermont Agricultural Credit Corporation, title to all
property owned by the Vermont Agricultural Credit Corporation shall vest in
the Authority.


--- Page 18 ---
- 4569 -
§ 280kk. LOAN ELIGIBILITY STANDARDS
A farmer, forest products business, or a limited liability company,
partnership, corporation, or other business entity with a minimum 20 percent
ownership of which is vested in one or more farmers, forest products
businesses, or a nonprofit corporation, shall be eligible to apply for a farm
ownership or operating loan that shall be intended to expand the agricultural
economy or forest economy of the State, provided the applicant is:
(1) an owner, prospective purchaser, or lessee of agricultural land in the
State or of depreciable machinery, equipment, or livestock to be used in the
State;
(2)
a person of sufficient education, training, or experience in the
operation and management of an agricultural facility or farm operation or
forest products business of the type for which the applicant requests the loan;
(3)
an operator or proposed operator of an agricultural facility, farm
operation, or forest products business for whom the loan reduces investment
costs to an extent that offers the applicant a reasonable chance to succeed in
the operation and management of an agricultural facility or farm operation;
(4)
a creditworthy person under such standards as the Authority may
establish;
(5)
able to provide and maintain adequate security for the loan by a
mortgage on real property or a security agreement and perfected financing
statement on personal property;
(6)
able to demonstrate that the applicant is responsible and able to
manage responsibilities as owner
or operator
of
the farm
operation,
agricultural facility, or forest products business;
(7) able to demonstrate that the applicant has made adequate provision
for insurance protection of the mortgaged or secured property while the loan is
outstanding;
(8) a person who possesses the legal capacity to incur loan obligations;
(9) in compliance with such other reasonable eligibility standards as the
Authority may establish;
(10)
able to demonstrate that the project plans comply with all
regulations of the municipality where it is to be located and of the State of
Vermont;
(11) able to demonstrate that the making of the loan will be of public
use and benefit;


--- Page 19 ---
- 4570 -
(12)
able to demonstrate that the proposed loan will be adequately
secured by a mortgage on real property or by a security agreement on personal
property; and
(13) able to demonstrate that there will be sufficient projected cash flow
to service a reasonable level of debt, including the loan or loans, being
considered by the Authority.
Sec. 10. 10 V.S.A. § 211(c) is amended to read:
(c) Therefore, the general public advantage requires:
* * *
(7)
low-cost capital to assist Vermont family farmers to farm as
provided in subdivision 272(3) of this title;
* * *
Sec. 11. 10 V.S.A. § 212 is amended to read:
§ 212. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter, with the exception of subchapter 16:
* * *
Sec. 12. 10 V.S.A. § 216 is amended to read:
§ 216. AUTHORITY; GENERAL POWERS
The Authority is hereby authorized:
* * *
(17)
To contribute to the capital of the Vermont Agricultural Credit
Corporation Program established pursuant to chapter 16A subchapter 16 of this
title chapter in an amount the Authority determines is necessary and
appropriate.
* * *
Sec. 13. 10 V.S.A. § 220a is amended to read:
§ 220a. THE VERMONT JOBS FUND
(a) There is hereby created the Vermont Jobs Fund, hereinafter called the
Fund, which shall be used by the Authority as a nonlapsing fund for the
purposes of this chapter. To it shall be charged all operating expenses of the
Authority not otherwise provided for and all payments of interest and principal
required to be made by the Authority under this subchapter.
To it shall be
credited any appropriations made by the General Assembly for the purposes of


--- Page 20 ---
- 4571 -
this chapter and all payments required to be made to the Authority under this
chapter, it being the intent of this section that the Fund shall operate as a
revolving fund whereby all appropriations and payments made thereto may be
applied and reapplied for the purposes of this chapter.
Monies in the Fund
may be loaned at interest rates to be set by the Authority for the following:
* * *
(b) Monies in the Fund may be loaned to the Vermont Agricultural Credit
Program to support its lending operations as established in chapter 16A of this
title at interest rates and on terms and conditions to be set by the Authority to
establish a line of credit in an amount not to exceed $100,000,000.00 to be
advanced to the Vermont Agricultural Credit Program to support its lending
operations as established in chapter 16A of this title.
(c)(b) Monies in the Fund may be loaned to the Vermont Small Business
Development Corporation to support its lending operations as established
pursuant to subdivision 216(14) of this title at interest rates and on terms and
conditions to be set by the Authority.
(d)(c) Monies in the Fund may be loaned to the Vermont 504 Corporation
to support its lending operations as established pursuant to subdivision 216(13)
of this title at interest rates and on terms and conditions to be set by the
Authority.
(e)(d)
The Authority may loan money from the Fund to the Vermont
Sustainable Energy Loan Fund established under subchapter 13 of this chapter
at interest rates and on terms and conditions set by the Authority.
Sec. 14. 10 V.S.A. § 280a is amended to read:
§ 280a. ELIGIBLE PROJECTS; AUTHORIZED FINANCING PROGRAMS
(a)
The Authority may develop, modify, and implement any existing or
new financing program, provided that any specific project that benefits from
such program shall meet the criteria contained in the Vermont Sustainable Jobs
Strategy outlined in section 280b of this title. These programs may include:
* * *
(12) loans to agricultural enterprises or endeavors administered by the
Authority under chapter 16A subchapter 16 of this title chapter and any
programs created thereunder.
* * *
* * * Hemp Oversight * * *
Sec. 15. TRANSITION OF HEMP PROCESSOR OVERSIGHT


--- Page 21 ---
- 4572 -
6 V.S.A. chapter 34 (hemp) is repealed.
Sec. 16. 7 V.S.A. chapter 31, subchapter 3 is added to read:
Subchapter 3. Hemp
§ 851. FINDINGS; PURPOSE
(a) Findings. The General Assembly finds that the federal legal status of
most hemp products will be contingent upon an amendment to 7 U.S.C.
§ 1639o, to take effect in November 2026, pursuant to the Continuing
Appropriations, Agriculture, Legislative Branch, Military Construction and
Veterans Affairs, and Extensions Act of 2026, Pub. L. No. 119-37.
The
legality of hemp and hemp products in interstate commerce is unsettled and
continues to evolve.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subchapter is to unify oversight of
cannabis and hemp-derived cannabinoids under the Cannabis Control Board to
more effectively prohibit illicit cannabis and cannabis product trade while
positioning growers and processors of nonintoxicating hemp products to take
advantage of national market opportunities that may exist. The purpose of this
subchapter is also to support small-business hemp producers and processors in
taking advantage of opportunities for the cultivation and sale of hemp and
hemp products.
§ 852. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
(1)(A) “Grow” means:
(i) planting, cultivating, harvesting, or drying of hemp; and
(ii) selling, storing, and transporting of hemp grown by a grower.
(B) “Grow” also means to produce.
(2) “Grower” means a person who is registered with the Board and the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to produce hemp.
“Grower” also means
producer.
(3)
“Hemp” means the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of the
plant, including the seeds and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, acids,
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with the federally
defined tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration level
of
hemp.
Hemp
is
considered an agricultural commodity.
(4)(A) “Hemp product” or “hemp-infused product” means any product
with the federally defined tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level for hemp


--- Page 22 ---
- 4573 -
derived from, or made by, processing hemp plants or plant parts, that is
prepared in a form available for commercial sale, including cosmetics,
personal care products, food intended for animal or human consumption, cloth,
cordage, fiber, fuel, paint, paper, construction materials, plastics, and any
product
containing
one or
more hemp-derived
cannabinoids,
such
as
cannabidiol.
(B) Notwithstanding subdivision (A) of this subdivision (4), “hemp
product”
and
“hemp-infused
product”
do
not
include
any
substance,
manufacturing intermediary, or product that:
(i)
is prohibited or deemed a regulated cannabis product by
administrative rule of the Board; or
(ii) is not lawful in interstate commerce.
(C) A hemp-derived product or substance that is excluded from the
definition of
“hemp product” or
“hemp-infused product” pursuant
to
subdivision (B) of this subdivision (4) is considered a cannabis product as
defined by subdivision 831(3) of this title; provided, however, that a person
duly licensed or registered by the Board lawfully may possess such products in
conformity with the person’s active hemp processor license.
(5)
“Process”
means
the
storing,
drying,
trimming,
handling,
compounding, or converting of hemp by a processor for a single grower or
multiple growers into hemp products or hemp-infused products.
“Process”
includes:
(A)
transporting, aggregating, or packaging hemp from a single
grower or multiple growers; or
(B)
manufacturing hemp products or hemp-infused products from
hemp concentrate.
(6) “Processor” means a person who is licensed by the Board to process
hemp. A retail establishment selling hemp products or hemp-infused products
is not a processor.
§ 853. HEMP; AN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT
(a) Hemp is an agricultural product that may be grown as a crop produced,
possessed, marketed, and commercially traded in Vermont pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and administrative rules of the Cannabis Control
Board.
(b)
The cultivation of hemp shall be subject to and comply with the
Required Agricultural Practices adopted under 6 V.S.A. § 4810, as amended.


--- Page 23 ---
- 4574 -
§ 854. HEMP REGISTRATION AND LICENSURE
(a)
Producers.
All persons engaged in the production of hemp shall
register with the Board as growers and shall provide their location, the nature
of their activities, and evidence that those activities conform to the
requirements of federal law and regulation.
A person shall apply for
registration or renewal of registration on a form provided by the Board. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee required under section 858 of this
subchapter.
(b) Processors. All persons engaged in the processing of hemp, including
trade in hemp-derived cannabinoids and process intermediaries, shall be
licensed by the Board.
A person shall apply for a license or renewal of a
license on a form provided by the Board.
The application shall be
accompanied by the fee required under section 858 of this subchapter.
(c)
Products.
All hemp-derived products containing or reasonably
expected to contain more than 0.4 mg tetrahydrocannabinol shall be registered
with the Board prior to sale to any person within this State. A person shall
apply for registration or renewal of registration on a form provided by the
Board. The application shall be accompanied by the fee required under section
858 of this subchapter.
(d)
All applicants.
The Board may deny an application for licensure,
registration, or renewal if the applicant:
(1) fails to establish that its activities comply with State and federal law;
(2) refuses the Board or its lawful designees entry upon its premises to
inspect and confirm compliance, including by sampling hemp and hemp
products for potency testing;
(3) fails to submit information requested by the Board; or
(4) fails to submit the fee required under section 858 of this subchapter.
§ 855. RULEMAKING AUTHORITY
(a) The Board may adopt rules to provide for the implementation of this
subchapter, which may include rules to:
(1) require hemp to be tested during growth for tetrahydrocannabinol
levels;
(2)
authorize or specify the method or methods of testing hemp,
including, where appropriate, the ratio of cannabidiol to tetrahydrocannabinol
levels or a taxonomic determination using genetic testing;


--- Page 24 ---
- 4575 -
(3) require inspection and supervision of hemp during sowing, growing
season, harvest, storage, processing, and distribution;
(4)
require labels or label information for hemp products in order to
provide consumers with transparent and accurate product content or source
information, to be free of false or misleading claims and claims contrary to the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 301–399i, or to conform
with federal requirements;
(5) establish sanitary requirements for licensed processing facilities;
(6) establish registration requirements for hemp-derived products sold
or distributed in the State, including requirements that each product be
sampled and tested by a laboratory recognized by the Board;
(7) require disclosure or labeling of the amount of cannabinoids known
to be present in hemp products sold or distributed in the State;
(8)
require that licensees and registrants, including out-of-state
purveyors of registered hemp products, obtain and maintain commercially
reasonable insurance, which for producers of consumer products in final form
shall include product liability insurance;
(9) prohibit hazardous additives to hemp products, or specify additive
limits, relative to substances that are toxic, not generally recognized as safe, or
designed to make the product more addictive or more appealing to persons
under 21 years of age or to mislead consumers;
(10) specify when a registered hemp product that contains more than 0.4
mg tetrahydrocannabinol must be restricted for sale to persons 21 years of age
or older or restricted for sale in specified settings, or both;
(11)
define “craft processors” as a class of small businesses with
different needs and risks and exempt craft processor licensees from the
requirements of this subchapter that the Board finds to be unnecessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
(12)
waive or reduce licensing fees for craft processor applicants
pursuant to rule or readily accessible policy;
(13) exempt certain product categories from the requirement to register
under this chapter;
(14)
establish requirements for the consumer sale of any product
containing tetrahydrocannabinol or other cannabinoids; or
(15)
prohibit
any
person
from
making
false,
misleading,
or
unsubstantiated claims for cannabinoid-containing products.


--- Page 25 ---
- 4576 -
(b) The Board shall adopt rules to:
(1)
establish requirements for the licensure of processors of hemp,
hemp-derived process intermediaries, and hemp products; and
(2)
regulate the use of processing facilities and equipment to permit
processors to use the same equipment for hemp and cannabis processing and to
prevent cross contamination between hemp and cannabis.
§ 856. TEST RESULTS; ENFORCEMENT
(a) When notified that hemp, a hemp product, or a hemp-infused product
has a tetrahydrocannabinol concentration exceeding the applicable federally
defined tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level of hemp, the person licensed
or registered with the Board to grow or process the hemp shall arrange for
disposal, remediation, or destruction of the hemp, hemp product, or hemp-
infused product in a manner consistent with applicable State and federal law.
(b)
To enforce the provisions of this subchapter, the Board, upon
presenting appropriate credentials, may conduct one or more of the following:
(1)
Enter upon any premises where hemp is grown or processed and
inspect premises, machinery, equipment and facilities, all hemp during any
growth phase, or any hemp product or hemp-infused product during processing
or storage.
Inspection under this section may include taking samples,
inspecting records, and inspecting equipment or vehicles used to grow,
process, or transport hemp, hemp products, or hemp-infused products.
(2) Inspect any retail location offering hemp products or hemp-infused
products. Inspection under this section may include taking samples of such
products.
(3) Issue and enforce a written or printed “stop sale” order to the owner
or custodian of any hemp, hemp product, or hemp-infused product subject to
the requirements of this subchapter or rules adopted under this subchapter that
the Board finds is in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or
rules adopted under this subchapter.
An order may prohibit further sale,
processing, and movement of the hemp, hemp product, or hemp-infused
product until the Board has approved and issued a release from the “stop sale”
order.
(A) This order shall include the reason for issuance, a description of
the hemp or hemp products at issue, instructions to separate all hemp or hemp
products subject to the order, and any recommended measures to remedy the
basis or bases for the order.


--- Page 26 ---
- 4577 -
(B) A person issued a “stop sale” order may appeal that order to the
Board within 15 days after receipt. The person shall file any appeal by serving
a letter on the Board, which shall state all grounds for the appeal and identify
the hemp or hemp products affected by the appeal.
§ 857. ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
(a) The Board may assess violations and administrative penalties against
persons licensed or registered pursuant to this subchapter, as well as persons
required to be licensed or registered pursuant to this subchapter who fail to
obtain or maintain required credentials.
(b) The compliance and enforcement authorities and procedures applicable
to cannabis establishments shall apply to persons licensed or registered under
this subchapter.
(c) The Board may enforce a final administrative penalty by filing a civil
collection action in any Superior Court.
§ 858. FEES
(a) The following fees shall apply to each license or registration application
or each annual license or registration renewal under this subchapter:
(1) Producer: $50.00.
(2) Processor: $500.00.
(3) Product: $75.00.
(b)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the Board may issue
longer registrations, prorated at the same cost per year, for products it deems
low risk and shelf-stable. The products may be defined and distinguished in
readily accessible published guidance.
Sec. 16a. HEMP FEES REPORTING
On or before January 15, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall submit to
the House Committees on Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry, on Ways
and Means, and on Government Operations and Military Affairs and the
Senate
Committees
on
Agriculture,
on
Finance,
and
on
Economic
Development, Housing and General Affairs a report that includes the
following information:
(1) a summary of all hemp fees in effect in fiscal year 2027, including
any waivers, reductions, or alterations to the hemp fee schedule as set forth in
7 V.S.A. § 858;
(2) a summary of the revenue derived from each fee in fiscal year 2026;


--- Page 27 ---
- 4578 -
(3) a comparison of fees in other jurisdictions;
(4) an analysis of policies or trends that might affect the viability of the
fee amount; and
(5) a recommendation regarding how the hemp fee schedule as set forth
in 7 V.S.A. § 858 may be adjusted to better promote the intent of the General
Assembly to better support small-business hemp producers and processors.
Sec. 16a. HEMP FEES REPORTING
On or before January 15, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall submit to
the House Committees on Agriculture, Food Resiliency, and Forestry, on Ways
and Means, and on Government Operations and Military Affairs and the
Senate
Committees
on
Agriculture,
on
Finance,
and
on
Economic
Development, Housing and General Affairs a report that includes the
following information:
(1) a summary of all hemp fees in effect in fiscal year 2027, including
any waivers, reductions, or alterations to the hemp fee schedule as set forth in
7 V.S.A. § 858;
(2) a summary of the revenue derived from each fee in fiscal year 2026;
(3) a comparison of fees in other jurisdictions;
(4) an analysis of policies or trends that might affect the viability of the
fee amount; and
(5) a recommendation regarding how the hemp fee schedule as set forth
in 7 V.S.A. § 858 may be adjusted to better promote the intent of the General
Assembly to better support small-business hemp producers and processors.
Sec. 16b. REPEAL
7 V.S.A. § 855(a)(12) (waiving or reducing licensing fees for craft
processors) is repealed on January 1, 2028.
Sec. 17. 18 V.S.A. § 4201(15) is amended to read:
(15)(A)
“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L.,
except as provided by subdivision (B) of this subdivision (15), whether
growing or harvested, and includes:
(i) the seeds of the plant;
(ii) the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
(iii)
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.


--- Page 28 ---
- 4579 -
(B) “Cannabis” does not include:
(i)
the mature stalks of the plant and fiber produced from the
stalks;
(ii) oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant;
(iii)
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil, or cake;
(iv)
the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination; or
(v) hemp or hemp products, as defined in 6 V.S.A. § 562 7 V.S.A.
§ 852.
Sec. 18. 32 V.S.A. § 7811(b) is amended to read:
(b) The tax established in this section shall not be imposed on:
(1)
cannabis-related supplies sold by a dispensary registered under 7
V.S.A. chapter 37 to registered patients and registered caregivers, as those
terms are defined in 7 V.S.A. § 972;
(2) cannabis products, as defined in 7 V.S.A. § 831, that do not contain
tobacco; or
(3)
hemp or hemp products, as defined in 6 V.S.A. § 562 7 V.S.A.
§ 852, that do not contain tobacco.
Sec. 19. 7 V.S.A. § 845 is amended to read:
§ 845. CANNABIS REGULATION FUND
(a)
There is established the Cannabis Regulation Fund, which shall be
managed in accordance with 32 V.S.A. chapter 7, subchapter 5.
The Fund
shall be maintained by the Cannabis Control Board.
(b) The Fund shall be composed of:
(1) all State application fees, annual license fees, renewal fees, and civil
penalties collected by the Board pursuant to chapters chapter 31 (cannabis);
chapter 33 (cannabis establishments); and chapter 37 (medical cannabis
dispensaries) of this title;
* * *
Sec. 20. 7 V.S.A. § 834 is added to read:
§ 834. SALES RESTRICTIONS


--- Page 29 ---
- 4580 -
(a) As used in this section, “unregistered hemp” or “unregistered cannabis”
means a product required by State law or rule of the Cannabis Control Board
to be registered with the Cannabis Control Board, including a product derived
from the unregistered hemp or unregistered cannabis, that is not registered on
the date a transaction occurs.
(b)
No person shall cause unregistered hemp or unregistered cannabis
purchased by mail or through a computer network, telephonic network, or
other electronic network to be shipped to anyone other than a licensed
cannabis laboratory in this State.
(c) No person shall, with knowledge or reason to know of the violation,
provide substantial assistance to a person in violation of this section.
(d) A violation of this section is punishable as follows:
(1)
A knowing or intentional violation of this section shall be
punishable by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more
than $5,000.00, or both.
(2)
In addition to or in lieu of any other civil or criminal remedy
provided by law, upon a determination that a person has violated this section,
the Attorney General may impose a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed
$5,000.00 for each violation. For purposes of this subsection, each shipment
or transport of unregistered hemp or unregistered cannabis shall constitute a
separate violation.
(3)
The Attorney General may seek an injunction to restrain a
threatened or actual violation of this section.
(4)
In any action brought pursuant to this section, the State shall be
entitled to recover the costs of investigation, expert witness fees, the action,
and reasonable attorney’s fees.
(5)
A person who violates this section engages in an unfair and
deceptive trade practice in violation of the State’s Consumer Protection Act, 9
V.S.A. §§ 2451 et seq.
(6) If a court determines that a person has violated the provisions of this
section, the court shall order any profits, gain, gross receipts, or other benefit
from the violation to be disgorged and paid to the State Treasurer for deposit
in the General Fund.
(7) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the penalties or remedies, or
both, under this section are in addition to any other penalties and remedies
available under any other law of this State.


--- Page 30 ---
- 4581 -
* * * Natural Resources Conservation Council Mortgages * * *
Sec. 21. 10 V.S.A. § 723 is amended to read:
§ 723. POWERS OF SUPERVISORS
The supervisors shall have the following powers:
* * *
(5) To obtain options upon and to acquire by purchase, exchange, lease,
gift, grant, or bequest, any property, real or personal; to maintain, administer
and improve any properties acquired; to receive income from the properties
and to expend the income in carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter; and to borrow money, mortgage, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of
any of its property or interests in property in furtherance of the purposes and
the provisions of this chapter, provided however, that real estate shall not be
mortgaged, and provided however, that the sale, lease, or other disposition of
real property of the district is approved by the written consent of the governor;
* * *
* * * CAFO Permit Working Group * * *
Sec. 22. 10 V.S.A. § 1354 is added to read:
§ 1354. CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION PERMIT
PROGRAM WORKING GROUP
(a) Creation. The Secretary of Natural Resources, in coordination with the
Secretary of Agriculture, Food and Markets, shall convene a working group of
interested
parties
to
provide
advice
and
recommendations
on
the
implementation of and transition to the Concentrated Animal Feeding
Operation (CAFO) permit required under section 1353 of this title.
(b) Membership. The working group shall be composed of the following:
(1) five livestock farmers who are in good standing, appointed by the
Speaker of the House as follows:
(A) one representative of the Champlain Valley Farmer Coalition;
(B)
one representative of the Franklin and Grand Isle Farmers
Watershed Alliance;
(C) one representative of the Connecticut River Watershed Farmers
Alliance;
(D) one representative of the Vermont Dairy Producers Alliance; and
(E) one representative of farmers from the Northeast Kingdom;


--- Page 31 ---
- 4582 -
(2)
three agricultural technical service providers, appointed by the
Governor;
(3) three representatives from the environmental advocate community,
appointed by the Committee on Committees; and
(4) the executive director or designee from the Vermont Association of
Conservation Districts.
(c)
Assistance.
The Agency of Natural Resources and the Agency of
Agriculture, Food and Markets shall participate in the working group on an
advisory and administrative capacity but shall not have appointed members on
the working group and shall not be required to submit reports to the General
Assembly.
The working group shall have the administrative, technical, and
legal assistance of the Agency of Natural Resources.
(d) Meetings.
(1) The Secretary of Natural Resources shall call the first meeting of the
working group to occur on or before November 1, 2026.
(2) The working group shall select co-chairs from among its members at
the first meeting. One of the co-chairs shall represent livestock farmers, and
one co-chair shall represent the environmental advocate community.
(3) A majority of the membership of the working group shall constitute
a quorum.
(4) The working group shall meet at least quarterly, or more frequently
at the request of the co-chairs or at the request of the Secretary of Natural
Resources.
(5)
The working group’s meetings shall be open to the public in
accordance with 1 V.S.A. chapter 5, subchapter 2. Notwithstanding 1 V.S.A.
§ 313, the working group may go into executive session in order to discuss a
circumstance or an event regarding a specific farm or regarding a possible
CAFO permit violation by a specific farm.
(e)
Report.
The working group annually shall report to the House
Committees
on
Agriculture,
Food
Resiliency,
and
Forestry
and
on
Environment and the Senate Committees on Agriculture and on Natural
Resources and Energy.
The report may take the form of testimony to
committees from members of the working group.
(f) Definition. As used in this section, “good standing” means a farmer
subject to the requirement of this subchapter or to the requirements of 6 V.S.A.
chapter 215 and who:


--- Page 32 ---
- 4583 -
(1)
does not have an active enforcement violation that has reached a
final order with the Secretary of Natural Resources or the Secretary of
Agriculture, Food and Markets; and
(2) is in compliance with the terms of any current grant agreement or
contract with the Agency of Natural Resources or the Agency of Agriculture,
Food and Markets.
Sec. 23. CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION;
TRAINING ON INSPECTION
(a) On or before March 1, 2027, the Secretary of Natural Resources shall
contract with a third-party consultant to:
(1) assist the Secretary in the development of standards and procedures
to be used by the Agency of Natural Resources and the Agency of Agriculture,
Food and Markets when inspecting Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations
(CAFOs) as required by 10 V.S.A. chapter 47, subchapter 3A; and
(2) provide training to the Agency of Natural Resources and Agency of
Agriculture, Food and Markets staff on implementation of inspection of
CAFOs.
Farmers who qualify for a CAFO permit may voluntarily attend
training sessions.
(b)
When the Secretary of Natural Resources and the Secretary of
Agriculture, Food and Markets commence inspections of CAFOs under 10
V.S.A. chapter 47, subchapter 3A, the third-party consultant shall accompany
the Agency of Natural Resources’ inspectors on 10 inspections to ensure
compliance with the inspection standards developed under subsection (a) of
this section.
Sec. 24. CONTINGENCY OF FUNDING
The duty to implement Sec. 23 of this act (Concentrated Animal Feeding
Operation; training on inspection) is contingent upon an appropriation of funds
in fiscal year 2027 from the General Fund to the Agency of Natural Resources
for the specific purposes described in Sec. 23 of this act.
* * * Farm and Forestry Operations Security Special Fund * * *
Sec. 24a. 6 V.S.A. § 4643(e) is amended to read:
(e)
All administratively complete applications shall be evaluated by the
Review Board.
Within 15 days following receipt of an administratively
complete application, the Review Board by majority vote shall recommend to
the Secretary whether to issue a payment to the applicant. If the Review Board
recommends an award under this section, the The Secretary shall issue the


--- Page 33 ---
- 4584 -
award make a final award determination within 15 days following the date of
the Review Board’s recommendation.
* * * Permitting Large and Medium Farm Operations * * *
Sec. 24b. 6 V.S.A. § 4851(i) is amended to read:
(i) A Beginning on July 1, 2026, a person required to obtain a permit under
this section shall submit not be required to pay an annual operating fee of
$2,500.00 to the Secretary. During any calendar year in which a person has an
active Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation permit issued by the
Agency of Natural Resources pursuant to the federal Clean Water Act and pays
the required associated fee, that person shall not be required to pay the
$2,500.00 annual operating fee described in this section. The fees collected
under this section shall be deposited in the Agricultural Water Quality Special
Fund under section 4803 of this title.
Sec. 24c. 6 V.S.A. § 4858(e) is amended to read:
(e)
Operating fee.
A Beginning on July 1, 2026, a person required to
obtain a permit or coverage under this section shall submit not be required to
pay an annual operating fee of $1,500.00 to the Secretary. The fees collected
under this section shall be deposited in the Agricultural Water Quality Special
Fund under section 4803 of this title.
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 25. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) Secs. 15–20 (hemp oversight) shall take effect on passage.
(b) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
Report of Committee of Conference
H. 944.
An act relating to the fiscal year 2027 Transportation Program and
miscellaneous changes to laws related to transportation.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
The Committee of Conference to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon House Bill entitled:
H. 944. An act relating to the fiscal year 2027 Transportation Program and
miscellaneous changes to laws related to transportation.
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the House accede to the Senate proposal of amendment with


--- Page 34 ---
- 4585 -
further amendment thereto by striking out all after the enacting clause and
inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Legislative Findings * * *
Sec. 1. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS
The General Assembly finds that:
(1) State fiscal year 2025 Transportation Fund revenues came in nearly
$7,400,000.00 below the revenue forecast.
(2) In July 2025, the revenue forecast for the Transportation Fund was
downgraded for State fiscal years 2026–2030 because of reductions in the
projected revenues from the purchase and use tax and Department of Motor
Vehicles fees.
(3) Revenues from the taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel are projected to
gradually decrease in State fiscal years 2026–2030. That trend is expected to
continue because of improving vehicle fuel efficiency among all vehicles and
increasing adoption of electric vehicles.
(4) The July 2025 consensus revenue forecast estimates a 1.33 percent
compound annual growth rate in Transportation Fund revenues between 2026
and 2030, which is far below recent inflation levels.
(5) In contrast with the slow growth in Transportation Fund revenues,
the National Highway Construction Cost Index increased by approximately 62
percent between 2020 and 2025.
(6)
In addition to rising construction costs, salaries and benefits have
also increased significantly in recent years, creating significant ongoing cost
pressure on the Transportation Fund.
(7) To address budget shortfalls in the past year, the Agency has been
forced to eliminate 62 permanent positions.
(8) Continuing deficits in the Transportation Fund threaten the State’s
ability to provide the required match for federal funds, which make up more
than half of the State’s annual transportation budget.
(9) Municipalities face the same cost pressures as the State. However,
State aid for town highways has only increased by 2.7 percent, which places
increasing pressure on chronically underfunded town highway programs and
puts pressure on the property tax.
(10) If Vermont is unable to keep up with the maintenance and capital
needs of its transportation system, the infrastructure will continue to


--- Page 35 ---
- 4586 -
deteriorate, and restoring the system to a state of good repair will cost
significantly more.
(11) Prompt legislative action is necessary to ensure the future health
and stability of the Transportation Fund and to enable the Agency of
Transportation to keep Vermont’s transportation system in a state of good
repair.
* * * Transportation Program Adopted as Amended; Definitions * * *
Sec. 2. TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM ADOPTED; DEFINITIONS
(a) Adoption. The Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program appended to the Agency of Transportation’s proposed
fiscal year 2027 budget, as amended by this act, is adopted to the extent
federal, State, and local funds are available.
(b) Definitions. As used in this act, unless otherwise indicated:
(1) “Agency” means the Agency of Transportation.
(2)
“Candidate project” means a project approved by the General
Assembly that is not anticipated to have significant preliminary engineering
expenditures or right-of-way expenditures, or both, during the budget year and
for which construction funding is not anticipated within a predictable time
frame.
(3)
“Development and evaluation (D&E) project” means a project
approved by the General Assembly that is anticipated to have preliminary
engineering expenditures or right-of-way expenditures, or both, during the
budget year and that the Agency is committed to delivering to construction on
a timeline driven by priority and available funding.
(4) “Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)” and “electric vehicle
supply equipment available to the public” have the same meanings as in
30 V.S.A. § 201.
(5)
“Front-of-book project” means a project approved by the General
Assembly that is anticipated to have construction expenditures during the
budget year or the following three years, or both, with expected expenditures
shown over four years.
(6)
“Plug-in electric vehicle (PEV),” “plug-in hybrid electric vehicle
(PHEV),” and “battery electric vehicle (BEV)” have the same meanings as in
23 V.S.A. § 4(85).
(7) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.


--- Page 36 ---
- 4587 -
(8)
“TIB funds” means monies deposited in the Transportation
Infrastructure Bond Fund in accordance with 19 V.S.A. § 11f.
(9)
The
table
heading
“As
Proposed”
means
the
Proposed
Transportation Program referenced in subsection (a) of this section; the table
heading “As Amended” means the amendments as made by this act; the table
heading “Change” means the difference obtained by subtracting the “As
Proposed” figure from the “As Amended” figure; the term “change” or
“changes” in the text refer to the project- and program-specific amendments,
the aggregate sum of which equals the net “Change” in the applicable table
heading; and “State” in any tables amending authorizations indicates that the
source of funds is State monies in the Transportation Fund, unless otherwise
specified.
* * * Summary of Transportation Investments * * *
Sec. 3. FISCAL YEAR 2027 TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS
INTENDED TO REDUCE TRANSPORTATION-RELATED
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, REDUCE FOSSIL FUEL
USE, AND SAVE VERMONT HOUSEHOLDS MONEY
This act includes the State’s fiscal year 2027 transportation investments
intended to reduce transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions, reduce
fossil fuel use, and save Vermont households money in furtherance of the
policies articulated in 19 V.S.A. § 10b and the goals of the Comprehensive
Energy Plan and the Vermont Climate Action Plan and to satisfy the Executive
and Legislative Branches’ commitments to the Paris Agreement climate goals.
In fiscal year 2027, these efforts will include the following:
(1)
Park and Ride Program.
This act provides for a fiscal year
expenditure of $1,976,211.00, which will fund three park and ride projects.
(2)
Bike and Pedestrian Facilities Program.
This act provides for a
fiscal year expenditure, including local match, of $24,576,873.00, which will
fund 34 bike and pedestrian construction projects; 18 bike and pedestrian
design, right-of-way, or design and right-of way projects for construction in
future fiscal years; and eight scoping studies.
The construction projects
include the creation, improvement, and rehabilitation of walkways, sidewalks,
shared-use paths, bike paths, and cycling lanes.
Projects are funded in
Arlington, Bennington, Bethel, Brattleboro, Burke, Burlington, Castleton,
Chester, Danville, Essex Town, Fairfax, Greensboro, Guilford, Hartford,
Huntington, Hyde Park, Irasburg, Jamaica, Johnson, Lunenburg, Middlebury,
Montpelier, Moretown, Morristown, Newfane, Newport City, Northfield,
Pownal, Royalton, Rutland City, Rutland Town, Sheldon, South Burlington,
Springfield, St. Albans City, Swanton, Wallingford, Warren, Waterbury, West


--- Page 37 ---
- 4588 -
Rutland, Williston, Wilmington, and Wolcott. This act also provides funding
for:
(A) some of Local Motion’s operation costs to run the bike ferry on
the Colchester Causeway, which is part of the Island Line Trail;
(B) grant awards for State-aid construction projects;
(C) projects funded through the Safe Routes to School Program; and
(D) community grants along the Lamoille Valley Rail Trail (LVRT).
(3) Transportation Alternatives Program. This act provides for a fiscal
year expenditure of $4,514,362.00, including local funds, which will fund 22
transportation alternatives construction projects; 28 transportation alternatives
design, right-of-way, or design and right-of-way projects; and one scoping
study.
Of these 51 projects, 18 involve environmental mitigation related to
clean water or stormwater concerns, or both clean water and stormwater
concerns, and 30 involve bicycle and pedestrian facilities. Projects are funded
in
Athens,
Bennington,
Bethel,
Brandon,
Brattleboro,
Bristol,
Burke,
Burlington, Derby, Enosburg Falls, Fairlee, Ferrisburgh, Glover, Guilford,
Hinesburg, Hyde Park, Jericho, Londonderry, Ludlow, Lyndon, Montgomery,
Newark, Putney, Rockingham, Rutland City, Shoreham, South Burlington,
Springfield, Swanton, Warren, Weathersfield, Williston, Wilmington, and
Windham.
(4)
Public Transit Program.
This act provides for a fiscal year
expenditure of $57,855,144.00 for public transit uses throughout the State.
Included in the authorization are:
(A)
Go! Vermont, with an authorization of $380,000.00.
This
authorization supports transportation demand management (TDM) strategies,
including the State’s Trip Planner and commuter services, to promote the use
of carpools and vanpools.
(B) Mobility and Transportation Innovations (MTI) Grant Program,
with an authorization of $315,000.00 in federal funds.
This authorization
continues to support projects that improve both mobility and access to services
for transit-dependent Vermonters, reduce the use of single-occupancy vehicles,
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
(5)
Rail Program.
This act provides for a fiscal year expenditure of
$60,289,410.00, including local funds and $34,688,907.00 in federal funds, for
intercity passenger rail service, including funding for the Ethan Allen Express
and Vermonter Amtrak services, and rail infrastructure that supports freight
rail as well. Moving freight by rail instead of trucks lowers greenhouse gas
emissions by up to 75 percent, on average.


--- Page 38 ---
- 4589 -
* * * Paving * * *
Sec. 4. PAVING; STATEWIDE DISTRICT LEVELING
(a)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for Paving, authorized spending is amended as
follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
Other
1,150,000
1,150,000
0
PE
2,183,194
2,183,194
0
Const.
144,812,226
146,512,226
1,700,000
Total
148,145,420
149,845,420
1,700,000
Sources of funds
State
24,400,007
25,100,007
1,700,000
Federal
123,732,179
123,732,179
0
Local
13,235
13,235
0
Total
148,145,420
149,845,420
1,700,000
(b)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for Paving, authorized spending for STATEWIDE
District Leveling TBD is amended as follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
Const.
7,000,000
8,700,000
1,700,000
Total
7,000,000
8,700,000
1,700,000
Sources of funds
State
7,000,000
8,700,000
1,700,000
Total
7,000,000
8,700,000
1,700,000
(c) It is the intent of the General Assembly to direct the maximum amount
of funding to the State highway system. Consistent with this intent, within the
Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation
Program for Paving, any unobligated amounts or carryforward resulting from
project delays or cost overruns or underruns shall be directed to State highway
paving projects.
* * * State Highway Bridges * * *
Sec. 5. STATE HIGHWAY BRIDGES


--- Page 39 ---
- 4590 -
(a)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for State Highway Bridges, authorized spending is
amended as follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
PE
4,143,897
4,143,897
0
ROW
414,000
414,000
0
Const.
78,935,408
78,935,408
0
Other
1,400,000
1,400,000
0
Total
84,893,305
84,893,305
0
Sources of funds
State
2,873,295
1,123,295
-1,750,000
TIB
6,180,851
7,930,851
1,750,000
Federal
67,312,444
67,312,444
0
Local/Other
1,247,049
1,247,049
0
Inter Unit
7,279,666
7,279,666
0
Total
84,893,305
84,893,305
0
(b)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for State Highway Bridges, authorized spending for
SHAFTSBURY STP 014-1(6) is amended as follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
PE
14,678
14,678
0
Const.
2,600,000
2,600,000
0
Total
2,614,678
2,614,678
0
Sources of funds
State
521,000
0
-521,000
TIB
1,936
522,936
521,000
Federal
2,091,742
2,091,742
0
Total
2,614,678
2,614,678
0
(c)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for State Highway Bridges, authorized spending for
SUNDERLAND BM20102 is amended as follows:


--- Page 40 ---
- 4591 -
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
PE
85,287
85,287
0
Const.
2,000,000
2,000,000
0
Total
2,085,287
2,085,287
0
Sources of funds
State
415,057
0
-415,057
TIB
2,000
417,057
415,057
Federal
1,668,230
1,668,230
0
Total
2,085,287
2,085,287
0
(d)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for State Highway Bridges, authorized spending for
SUNDERLAND NH CULV 122 is amended as follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
PE
53,182
53,182
0
Const.
2,000,000
2,000,000
0
Total
2,053,182
2,053,182
0
Sources of funds
State
408,636
141,686
-266,950
TIB
2,000
268,950
266,950
Federal
1,642,546
1,642,546
0
Total
2,053,182
2,053,182
0
(e)
Within the Agency of Transportation’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2027
Transportation Program for State Highway Bridges, authorized spending for
TOPSHAM BF 031-1(13) is amended as follows:
FY27
As Proposed
As Amended
Change
PE
10,000
10,000
0
ROW
1,000
1,000
0
Const.
2,733,967
2,733,967
0
Total
2,744,967
2,744,967
0
Sources of funds


--- Page 41 ---
- 4592 -
State
546,993
0
-546,993
TIB
2,000
548,993
546,993
Federal
2,195,974
2,195,974
0
Total
2,744,967
2,744,967
0
* * * Transportation Infrastructure Bonds * * *
Sec. 6. FISCAL YEAR 2028 PROPOSED TRANSPORTATION
PROGRAM; TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE BOND;
REPORT
(a)
The Agency of Transportation shall report to the House and Senate
Committees on Transportation, on or before February 1, 2027, regarding
projects that are not proposed for the State fiscal year 2028 Transportation
Program that:
(1) are priority projects that are eligible to be funded with the proceeds
from the issuance of transportation infrastructure bonds pursuant to the
provisions of 32 V.S.A. § 972(d); and
(2) could be advanced to construction in the fiscal year 2028 or 2029
Transportation Program if the General Assembly authorized the issuance of
transportation infrastructure bonds.
(b) Information presented as part of the report shall include:
(1) an analysis comparing the present value of the estimated cost to pay
for the identified projects using transportation infrastructure bond proceeds to
the cost to pay for the projects on a pay-as-you-go basis;
(2) a comparison of the projects’ schedules if funded with transportation
infrastructure bonds to the projects’ schedules if funded on a pay-as-you-go
basis;
(3)
a review of historic transportation infrastructure bond usage in
Vermont, including debt service costs; and
(4)
a projection of future debt service costs and of the revenues
necessary to pay the debt service.
* * * Mileage-Based User Fee * * *
Sec. 7. FINDINGS AND INTENT
(a) Findings. The General Assembly finds that:
(1) Vermont adopted its first tax on gasoline in 1923.


--- Page 42 ---
- 4593 -
(2) In 1923, the most common motor vehicle in the Unites States was
the Ford Model T, whose annual production peaked at more than 2,000,000
new vehicles that year.
(3) Because of the limited variety of mass-produced vehicles available
when it was adopted, the gasoline tax, and the later-adopted diesel fuel tax,
served as use fees that required drivers of light-duty motor vehicles to
contribute to the State’s Transportation Fund in an amount that reflected the
number of miles that each vehicle was driven on Vermont’s surface
transportation system.
(4) Since 1923, the variety of mass-produced light-duty motor vehicles
available to consumers has expanded greatly, resulting in a wide variety of
internal combustion engine and vehicle types and designs with significant
differences in vehicle fuel efficiency.
(5)
Improvements in fuel efficiency among light-duty motor vehicles
and the increasing adoption of hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and battery electric
vehicles (BEVs) is leading to reduced fuel consumption among newer
vehicles.
(6) BEVs do not require gasoline and diesel fuel, and the $89.00 annual
infrastructure fee paid by owners and lessees of BEVs registered in Vermont is
less than the average amount of fuel taxes collected in relation to a light-duty
motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine.
(7)
As a result of differences in fuel consumption between different
types and ages of light-duty motor vehicles, the current system for funding
Vermont’s surface transportation system through fuel taxes has become
inequitable when the impacts of each vehicle on the transportation system are
considered.
(8) In contrast to the current system, a mileage-based user fee imposes a
per-mile fee for usage of the State’s highways and ensures that owners and
lessees of motor vehicles contribute to the Transportation Fund in an equitable
manner.
(9) Vermont’s taxes on gasoline and on diesel fuel were last increased in
2014, and the federal taxes on gasoline and on diesel fuel were last increased
in 1993.
(10) Reduced fuel consumption and unchanged gasoline and diesel tax
rates have resulted in stagnant fuel tax revenues that have not kept pace with
inflation or the needs of Vermont’s transportation system.


--- Page 43 ---
- 4594 -
(11)
In addition to Vermont’s stagnant fuel tax revenues, Vermont’s
demographic constraints and changes in vehicle ownership and usage have
limited the growth of fee revenues to the Transportation Fund.
(12)
Reductions in registration and license renewals and decreased
compliance with annual inspection requirements, combined with reduced
enforcement, has led to further diminished Transportation Fund revenues.
(13) The July 2025 consensus revenue forecast estimates a 1.33 percent
compound annual growth rate in Transportation Fund revenues between 2026
and 2030.
(14)
In comparison, highway construction costs, as measured by the
National Highway Construction Cost Index, have increased by 62 percent,
nationally, since 2020.
(b)
Intent.
It is the intent of the General Assembly to implement a
mileage-based user fee for BEVs, which will replace the existing infrastructure
fee beginning on January 1, 2027, to ensure that owners and lessees of BEVs
contribute to the Transportation Fund in an amount that reflects the annual
miles traveled by each vehicle.
Sec. 8. 23 V.S.A. chapter 43 is added to read:
CHAPTER 43. MILEAGE-BASED USER FEE
§ 4301. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
(1)
“Account
manager”
means
a
person
that
the
Agency
of
Transportation or Department of Motor Vehicles contracts with to administer
and manage the mileage-based user fee.
(2)
“Annual vehicle miles traveled” means the total number of miles
that a covered vehicle is driven during a mileage reporting period.
(3) “Covered vehicle” means a battery electric vehicle pleasure car.
(4) “Mileage-based user fee” or “MBUF” means the fee charged for the
annual vehicle miles traveled by a covered vehicle pursuant to section 4302 of
this chapter.
(5) “Mileage-based user fee rate” means the per-mile usage fee charged
to the owner or lessee of a covered vehicle pursuant to section 4302 of this
chapter.
(6) “Mileage reporting period” means:
(A) the time period between required annual inspections;


--- Page 44 ---
- 4595 -
(B) the time period between the initial registration of a vehicle and
an annual inspection; or
(C) the time period between the most recent annual inspection and a
terminating event.
(7) “Terminating event” means any of the following:
(A) the registration of a covered vehicle that had been registered in
Vermont in a different state;
(B) a change in ownership or lesseeship of a covered vehicle; or
(C) the termination of a covered vehicle’s registration in Vermont.
§ 4302. MILEAGE-BASED USER FEE; ASSESSMENT; CALCULATION;
PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS
(a) Assessment and payment of mileage-based user fee (MBUF).
(1) Options for payment of MBUF. The owner or lessee of a covered
vehicle may elect to pay the MBUF according to one of the following options:
(A)
annual payment of the MBUF as a lump sum following the
conclusion of each mileage reporting period as set forth in subdivision (2) of
this subsection (a);
(B)
pay-as-you-go installment payments of the MBUF during a
mileage reporting period as set forth in subdivision (3) of this subsection (a),
provided that the Commissioner, in the Commissioner’s sole discretion, elects
to make a pay-as-you-go option available; and
(C)
a flat rate of $178.00 as set forth in subdivision (5) of this
subsection (a).
(2) Annual mileage-based user fee payment option.
(A) For an owner or lessee who opts to pay the MBUF as a lump
sum at the end of each mileage reporting period, the Commissioner shall,
within 14 days after the conclusion of the covered vehicle’s mileage reporting
period, calculate the amount of the MBUF pursuant to subsection (d) of this
section and mail an assessment of the amount to the owner or lessee.
(B)
The owner or lessee shall remit the amount due to the
Commissioner on or before the earlier of:
(i) the next required registration renewal for the covered vehicle;
(ii) the termination of the covered vehicle’s Vermont registration;
or


--- Page 45 ---
- 4596 -
(iii) the sale of the covered vehicle or termination of the lease of
the covered vehicle, as appropriate.
(3) Pay-as-you-go option.
(A)
Owners and lessees who opt into the pay-as-you-go mileage-
based user fee option shall report the mileage shown on the odometer of the
owner’s or lessee’s covered vehicle at times and in a manner required by the
Commissioner.
(B)
As soon as practicable after receiving each report, the
Commissioner shall calculate pursuant to subsection (d) of this section the
applicable MBUF due for the covered vehicle and mail to the owner or lessee a
statement of the amount of the mileage-based user fee assessed.
(C) The owner or lessee of the covered vehicle shall remit the full
amount due to the Commissioner within not more than 30 days after the
assessment is mailed.
(D) At the end of each mileage reporting period, the amount paid by
the owner or lessee shall be reconciled against the actual mileage driven as set
forth in subdivision (4) of this subsection.
(4) Reconciliation of mileage for pay-as-you-go option.
(A) At the conclusion of each mileage reporting period for a covered
vehicle whose owner or lessee has elected the pay-as-you-go payment option,
the Commissioner shall determine if the amount of the MBUF for the actual
miles traveled by the covered vehicle during the mileage reporting period is
greater than or less than the amount of the payments made by the owner or
lessee during that period.
(B) If the actual MBUF is less than the amount paid, the owner or
lessee of the covered vehicle shall receive a credit equal to the difference
between the amount paid and the actual amount, which shall be applied to
reduce the amount of future fees due from the owner or lessee for the covered
vehicle pursuant to this subsection (a).
(C) If the actual MBUF is more than the amount paid, the owner or
lessee of the covered vehicle shall be assessed an amount equal to the
difference between the actual MBUF and the amount paid, which shall be
added to the next amount due from the owner or lessee pursuant to this
subsection (a).
(5) Flat-rate option.
(A) The Commissioner shall send an owner or lessee who elects the
flat-rate option an assessment for the flat fee due at the beginning of each


--- Page 46 ---
- 4597 -
mileage reporting period. The owner or lessee shall remit the amount due to
the Commissioner on or before the earlier of:
(i) the next required registration renewal for the covered vehicle;
(ii) the termination of the covered vehicle’s Vermont registration;
or
(iii) the sale of the covered vehicle or termination of the lease of
the covered vehicle, as appropriate.
(B) An owner or lessee enrolled in the flat-rate option shall not be
required to report vehicle mileage to the Commissioner pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
Nothing in this subdivision (5)(B) shall be
construed to exempt an owner or lessee enrolled in the flat-rate option from
any other requirements in State law related to vehicle inspections or odometer
disclosures.
(6) Payment dates for mileage reporting periods ending within 60 days
of registration renewal. Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection to
the contrary, the owner or lessee of a covered vehicle with a mileage reporting
period that ends 60 or fewer days prior to the next required registration
renewal for the vehicle shall be permitted to remit the amount due to the
Commissioner on or before the earlier of:
(A) the next subsequent registration renewal of the vehicle;
(B) the termination of the vehicle’s registration; or
(C) the sale of the vehicle or the termination of the vehicle’s lease, as
applicable.
(b) Newly registered vehicles. The owner or lessee of a newly registered
covered vehicle shall pay the MBUF during the initial year of registration
pursuant to:
(1)
the pay-as-you-go option set forth in subdivision (a)(3) of this
section; or
(2) the flat-rate option set forth in subdivision (a)(5) of this section.
(c) Election of different payment option. An owner or lessee of a covered
vehicle may select a different option for payment of the MBUF pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section by providing notice to the Commissioner in the
time and manner prescribed by the Commissioner.


--- Page 47 ---
- 4598 -
(d) Calculation of the mileage-based user fee.
(1) The Commissioner shall calculate the mileage-based user fee of each
covered vehicle by multiplying the miles traveled by the covered vehicle
during the applicable period by the rate established pursuant to subsection (e)
of this section. The number of miles traveled shall be equal to:
(A)
for a mileage reporting period, the difference between the
mileage shown on the covered vehicle’s odometer at the end of the mileage
reporting period and the mileage shown on the covered vehicle’s odometer at
the beginning of the mileage reporting period; and
(B) for a report filed by an owner or lessee as part of the pay-as-you-
go mileage-based user fee program pursuant to subdivision (a)(3) of this
section, the difference between the mileage reported by the owner or lessee
and the most recent prior mileage reported for the covered vehicle.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of subdivision (1) of this subsection
to the contrary, the mileage-based user fee assessed for a mileage reporting
period shall not exceed $178.00.
(e) Mileage-based user fee rate. The mileage-based user fee rate shall be
$0.014 per mile traveled by a covered vehicle during its mileage reporting
period.
(f)
Exemptions.
The mileage-based user fee assessed pursuant to this
section shall not apply to:
(1)
covered vehicles owned or operated by the government of the
United States;
(2) covered vehicles owned or operated by the State of Vermont; or
(3) covered vehicles that are used for short-term rentals.
(g)
Fee in addition to other fees and taxes.
A mileage-based user fee
assessed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to any other fees and taxes
imposed by this title.
(h) Review of amount assessed.
A person may, within 45 days after an
assessment is mailed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, appeal the
amount of the assessment to the Commissioner.
The Commissioner shall
establish procedures for filing and hearing appeals pursuant to this subsection
that are consistent with the provisions of sections 105–107 of this title. The
procedures shall include a process by which an appellant can resolve the
dispute prior to the issuance of a final administrative decision on the appeal.


--- Page 48 ---
- 4599 -
(i) Refunds. Notwithstanding subdivision (a)(5)(B) of this section, upon
occurrence of a terminating event, the Commissioner shall issue a refund to the
owner or lessee of a covered vehicle for any amounts paid by the owner or
lessee that are in excess of the amount due pursuant to this chapter.
§ 4303. REPORTS
(a)
Upon completion of an inspection of a covered vehicle pursuant to
section 1222 of this title, an inspection mechanic shall report the mileage
shown on the covered vehicle’s odometer to the Department in the manner
required by the Commissioner.
(b) Upon the occurrence of a terminating event, the owner or lessee of a
covered vehicle shall report the mileage shown on the covered vehicle’s
odometer at the time of the terminating event to the Department in the time
and manner required by the Commissioner.
§ 4304. FAILURE TO FILE REPORT OR OBTAIN INSPECTION;
DEFAULT RATE
(a)
The Commissioner shall charge the owner or lessee of a covered
vehicle a default rate of $178.00 if the Commissioner is unable to determine
the annual vehicle miles traveled for the owner’s or lessee’s covered vehicle
because the owner or lessee:
(1) failed to file a report required by section 4303 of this chapter within
a reasonable period of time after the report is due;
(2) failed to have the covered vehicle inspected as required pursuant to
section 1222 of this title within a reasonable period of time after the inspection
is due at either the commencement or conclusion of a mileage reporting
period; or
(3) failed to have the covered vehicle inspected at any time during or
within a reasonable time after the conclusion of a mileage reporting period.
(b)(1)
The default amount required pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section shall be assessed when the owner or lessee of the covered vehicle next
renews the vehicle’s registration following the mileage reporting period.
(2) After being assessed the default amount pursuant to this subsection,
the owner or lessee of the covered vehicle may obtain an inspection within 60
days after the date on which the vehicle’s registration is renewed.
If the
covered vehicle’s mileage is such that the mileage-based user fee would have
been less than the default amount, the owner or lessee shall receive a credit for
the difference that is applied to reduce the amount of the next mileage-based
user fee due for the covered vehicle, provided that the Commissioner has


--- Page 49 ---
- 4600 -
sufficient odometer data to determine the mileage traveled since the beginning
of the mileage reporting period.
§ 4305. REGISTRATION; SUSPENSION OR REFUSAL
(a) Suspension of registration. The Commissioner may suspend or refuse
to renew the registration of a covered vehicle if the Commissioner determines,
following notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided pursuant to
subsection (b) of this section, that the owner or lessee of the covered vehicle:
(1)
failed to file a report required pursuant to section 4303 of this
chapter;
(2)
filed
a
report
containing
an
intentional
misrepresentation,
misstatement, or omission of material information required by this chapter; or
(3) is delinquent at the time of renewal in the payment of any amount
due pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(b) Notice and opportunity for hearing. The Commissioner shall provide
the owner or lessee of a covered vehicle with not less than 15 days’ notice of
the intent to suspend or not to renew the registration of the covered vehicle
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
The owner or lessee shall be
provided with the opportunity for a hearing and shall be permitted to be
represented by counsel at the hearing.
§ 4306. POWERS OF THE COMMISSIONER
(a)
General authority.
The Commissioner shall have the authority to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(b) Additional powers. In addition to any powers or authority specifically
granted to the Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
Commissioner may do the following:
(1)
adopt rules pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 as the Commissioner
determines necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
(2) prescribe forms appropriate to the purposes of this chapter; and
(3)
contract with an account manager to administer and manage the
mileage-based user fee.
§ 4307. APPEALS; JUDICIAL REVIEW
(a)
Administrative appeal.
An aggrieved person may appeal any final
decision, order, or finding of the Commissioner under this chapter within not
more than 45 days after the decision is issued or the order or finding is made.
The Commissioner shall establish procedures for filing and hearing appeals


--- Page 50 ---
- 4601 -
pursuant to this subsection that are consistent with the provisions of sections
105–107 of this title.
(b)
Appeal to Superior Court.
Following a final decision on an appeal
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or subsection 4302(h) of this chapter,
the appellant may appeal the decision pursuant to Rule 74 of the Vermont
Rules of Civil Procedure.
The appeal shall be to the Washington Superior
Court or, in the discretion of the appellant, to the Superior Court in the county
where the appellant resides or has a principal place of business.
(c)
Exclusivity of remedies.
The appeals provided by this section and
subsection 4302(h) of this chapter shall be the exclusive remedies available to
any person for review of an assessment, decision, or order or finding of the
Commissioner under this chapter.
Sec. 9. 23 V.S.A. § 361 is amended to read:
§ 361. PLEASURE CARS
* * *
(c)
In addition to the registration fee set forth in subsection (a) of this
section, there shall be an annual EV infrastructure fee for a pleasure car that is
a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle, as defined in subdivision 4(85)(B) of this
title, equal to one-half the amount of the annual fee collected in subsection (a)
of this section, or a biennial EV infrastructure fee equal to the annual fee
collected in subsection (a) of this section.
(d) The annual and biennial EV infrastructure fees collected in subsection
(c) of this section shall be allocated to deposited in the Transportation Fund for
programs administered by the Agency of Commerce and Community
Development to increase Vermonters’ access to level 1 and 2 electric vehicle
supply equipment
(EVSE)
charging ports at
workplaces or
multiunit
dwellings, or both.
Sec. 10. MILEAGE-BASED USER FEE; INITIAL TRANSITION
(a)
Notwithstanding any provision of 23 V.S.A. § 4302 to the contrary,
during calendar years 2027 and 2028, the owner or lessee of a covered vehicle
shall pay the mileage-based user fee for the covered vehicle’s first mileage
reporting period as provided pursuant to the provisions of subsection (b) of
this section.
(b)(1)(A) For a covered vehicle that has a valid Vermont registration on
December 31, 2026, the vehicle’s initial mileage reporting period shall
commence with its first annual inspection occurring on or after January 1,
2027.


--- Page 51 ---
- 4602 -
(B) For a covered vehicle that is newly registered in Vermont on or
after January 1, 2027, the vehicle’s initial mileage reporting period shall
commence on the date of registration.
(2)
For an initial registration or a registration renewal of a covered
vehicle that occurs on or after January 1, 2027, and prior to the completion of
the initial mileage reporting period, the owner or lessee of the covered vehicle
shall pay a one-time road usage charge of $89.00 for a one-year registration or
$178.00 for a two-year registration.
(3)
At the conclusion of a covered vehicle’s initial mileage reporting
period, the mileage-based user fee for the vehicle shall be calculated as
provided pursuant to the annual mileage-based user fee payment option set
forth in 23 V.S.A. § 4302(a)(2).
(4)(A)
Provided that all required annual safety inspections under
23 V.S.A. § 1222 have been obtained, the amount of the covered vehicle’s
mileage-based user fee calculated pursuant to subdivision (3) of this subsection
(b) shall be reduced by:
(i)
the amount of any road usage charge paid pursuant to
subdivision (2) of this subsection (b); or
(ii) for a covered vehicle whose owner or lessee did not pay the
road usage charge pursuant to subdivision (2) of this subsection (b) but paid
the EV infrastructure fee required pursuant to 23 V.S.A. § 361 at the most
recent registration or registration renewal of the vehicle prior to January 1,
2027, an amount equal to the amount of the EV infrastructure fee paid at the
most recent registration.
(B) Any amounts remaining after the initial mileage-based user fee
has been paid shall be carried forward and applied as a credit to reduce the
amount of future mileage-based user fees due in relation to the covered
vehicle.
(c) As used in this section, “covered vehicle” has the same meaning as in
23 V.S.A. § 4301.
Sec. 11. OUTREACH AND EDUCATION; USER EXPERIENCE; REPORT
(a) The Agency of Transportation and the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall
develop
and
implement
a
public
outreach,
education,
and
communications strategy regarding the mileage-based user fee program
established pursuant to 23 V.S.A. chapter 43 to build public awareness and
understanding of the program and to solicit public feedback regarding the
program. The strategy shall include the following:


--- Page 52 ---
- 4603 -
(1)
printed materials, web-based materials, mailings, and local media
outreach that describes the purpose of the mileage-based user fee, the
transportation funding challenges that the mileage-based user fee is intended to
help address, and how the mileage-based user fee will be implemented with
respect to battery electric vehicles and, later, other light-duty vehicles;
(2) prior to implementation, direct mailing of informational materials to
owners and lessees of battery electric vehicles that are currently registered in
Vermont that:
(A) outline the goals and design of the mileage-based user fee;
(B)
set forth the timeline for implementation of the mileage-based
user fee;
(C)
provide information regarding compliance with the mileage-
based user fee, including the options that will be available to each owner and
lessee; and
(D)
provide information on how to obtain additional information
regarding the mileage-based user fee, including how to obtain informational
resources provided by the Agency, the availability of user support resources,
and how to determine how the mileage-based user fee may apply to a user’s
specific circumstances;
(3)
prior to initial implementation of the mileage-based user fee in
January 2027, Agency engagement with owners and lessees of various types of
light-duty motor vehicles registered in Vermont to obtain feedback on the
design of the user experience for the mileage-based user fee, with particular
attention to universal accessibility and specific needs for translated materials
and services;
(4) survey and focus group work prior to and following implementation
of the mileage-based user fee with owners and lessees whose vehicles are
subject to the mileage-based user fee to aid in evaluating the implementation
of the initial phase of the mileage-based user fee and in developing
recommended programmatic and statutory changes; and
(5) ongoing engagement and collaboration with relevant stakeholders,
including the Vermont Vehicle and Automotive Distributors Association and
Drive Electric Vermont, to obtain feedback on the mileage-based user fee
program and to educate members of the public about the mileage-based user
fee and program design.
(b) The Agency and Department shall, on or before September 15, 2026,
submit to the Joint Transportation Oversight Committee a report summarizing


--- Page 53 ---
- 4604 -
the public outreach, education, and communications strategy required pursuant
to subsection (a) of this section.
Sec. 12. MILEAGE-BASED USER FEE TRANSITION PLAN;
REPORT
(a)(1)
The Agency of Transportation and the Department of Motor
Vehicles, in consultation with the Agency of Digital Services, shall design and
submit for approval by the General Assembly a plan and proposed legislation
to expand the mileage-based user fee (MBUF) program to plug-in hybrid
electric pleasure cars to ensure that all plug-in electric vehicles contribute an
amount that bears a direct relation to the estimated demands and impacts that
the vehicle places upon public infrastructure, as determined on the basis of
vehicle miles traveled.
(2) The plan shall provide that plug-in hybrid electric pleasure cars shall
begin participating in the MBUF program on or before January 1, 2029.
(3) The plan shall provide methods for ensuring that contributions to the
Transportation Fund are proportionate to the number of miles traveled in
Vermont by each vehicle, including:
(A)
additional payment and mileage tracking options for vehicle
owners or lessees to select from, including methods for differentiating between
miles traveled in Vermont and miles traveled outside Vermont; and
(B) a system to provide fuel tax credits for vehicles that use gasoline
or diesel fuel based on the vehicle’s fuel economy as estimated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency that are automatically applied to reduce the
MBUF for the vehicle to ensure that all covered vehicles contribute to
Vermont’s transportation system in an equitable manner.
(b) In developing the plan, the Agency and the Department shall:
(1) analyze the amounts paid by vehicles of different engine-fuel types
and classifications with respect to the diesel fuel tax pursuant to 23 V.S.A.
chapter 27, the gasoline tax pursuant to 23 V.S.A. chapter 28, and the
infrastructure fee imposed pursuant to 23 V.S.A. § 361(c), as applicable;
(2)
develop a proposed schedule for the inclusion of plug-in hybrid
electric pleasure cars in the MBUF program on or before January 1, 2029;
(3) consider possible methods to account for and differentiate between
in-state and out-of-state vehicle miles traveled by vehicles registered in
Vermont and vehicles registered in another state;
(4) examine the potential for integrating alternative mileage reporting
methods into the mileage-based user fee program and related costs;


--- Page 54 ---
- 4605 -
(5)
evaluate the potential to include medium- and heavy-duty electric
vehicles in the mileage-based user fee program and potential rate designs
based on vehicle weights; and
(6)
examine the relationship between expansion of the mileage-based
user
fee
program
and
fuel
tax
rates,
Transportation
Fund
revenue
sustainability, and Vermont’s carbon reduction targets.
(c) The Agency and Department shall also track the implementation costs
and operating expenses of and revenues generated by the mileage-based user
fee for State fiscal years 2027–2031.
The Agency and Department shall
submit an annual report of these amounts to the House Committees on
Transportation and on Ways and Means and the Senate Committees on
Transportation and on Finance on or before each December 31 beginning on
December 31, 2027, and continuing until December 31, 2031.
(d)(1) On or before January 31, 2027, the Agency of Transportation and
the Department of Motor Vehicles shall submit to the House Committees on
Transportation and on Ways and Means and the Senate Committees on
Transportation and on Finance an initial plan and recommendation for
legislative action to:
(A) incorporate plug-in hybrid electric pleasure cars into the MBUF
program;
(B)(i)
provide at least two additional options for determining the
number of vehicle miles traveled by a covered vehicle, including:
(I)
an option that would utilize vehicle systems or an
aftermarket device to track vehicle miles traveled; and
(II) an option that would enable vehicle owners and lessees to
track and differentiate between miles traveled in Vermont and miles traveled
outside Vermont, with the MBUF only applying to miles traveled in Vermont;
and
(ii) identify data privacy protections and best practices that should
be implemented to protect data obtained from owners and lessees who elect to
utilize the options identified pursuant to this subdivision (B);
(C)(i) recommend whether to retain a flat-rate option for the MBUF
and, if so, recommend the appropriate amount of the flat fee; and
(ii) recommend how to apply the flat fee to plug-in hybrid electric
pleasure cars, including whether to provide different flat fees based on vehicle
type or to provide credits against the amount of the flat fee based on vehicle
fuel efficiency; and


--- Page 55 ---
- 4606 -
(D) provide at least one option to enable vehicle owners and lessees
to track and differentiate between miles traveled in Vermont and miles traveled
outside Vermont, with the MBUF only applying to miles traveled in Vermont.
(2) On or before July 30, 2028, the Agency shall submit to the Joint
Transportation Oversight Committee and the House and Senate Committees on
Transportation a draft copy of the final report required to be submitted to the
Federal Highway Administration pursuant to the terms of the Agency’s federal
Strategic Innovation for Revenue Collection grant.
(3) On or before September 15, 2028, the Agency of Transportation and
the Department of Motor Vehicles shall submit to the House Committees on
Transportation and on Ways and Means and the Senate Committees on
Transportation and on Finance:
(A)
a final plan and proposal for legislative action necessary to
expand the MBUF program to all plug-in electric vehicles on or before January
1, 2029;
(B) a report of all findings made pursuant to subsection (b) of this
section; and
(C) any additional recommendations for legislative action.
Sec. 13. EVALUATION OF FEE ON PUBLIC ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING; REPORT
(a)
The Commissioner of Taxes, in consultation with the Secretary of
Transportation, the Commissioner of Public Service, and the Public Utility
Commission, shall examine the potential of generating revenue for the
Transportation Fund through a charge on the retail sale of electricity sold
through electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) available to the public. In
particular, the Commissioner shall:
(1) examine potential options for generating revenue from the retail sale
of electricity through EVSE available to the public, including:
(A) a per kilowatt hour fee on the retail sale of electricity in lieu of
the sales tax charged pursuant to 32 V.S.A. chapter 233;
(B)
a tax on the retail sale of electricity in lieu of the sales tax
charged pursuant to 32 V.S.A. chapter 233; and
(C)
other options, in the discretion of the Commissioner in
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation;
(2) with respect to all of the options examined pursuant to subdivision
(1) of this subsection:


--- Page 56 ---
- 4607 -
(A)
investigate the potential ease of implementation, including
anticipated administrative costs and any potential challenges;
(B) examine and compare the benefits and drawbacks; and
(C)
develop a projection for potential revenue that could be
generated at different rates; and
(3) identify examples of other states that have implemented the options
examined pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection.
(b)
On or before January 15, 2027, the Commissioner shall submit a
written report to the House Committees on Transportation and on Ways and
Means and the Senate Committees on Finance and on Transportation,
regarding any findings pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and a
recommendation
for
legislative
action
to
generate
revenue
for
the
Transportation Fund from the retail sale of electricity through EVSE available
to the public.
(c) As used in this section:
(1) “Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)” and “electric vehicle
supply equipment available to the public” have the same meanings as in 30
V.S.A. § 201.
(2) “Retail sale” has the same meaning as in 32 V.S.A. § 9701.
* * * Repeal of Municipal Equipment and Vehicle Loan Fund Rules * * *
Sec. 14. RULES REGARDING MUNICIPAL HEAVY EQUIPMENT LOAN
FUND; REPEAL
The Rules Regarding Municipal Heavy Equipment Loan Fund (CVR 14-
053-002) are repealed. The Municipal Equipment and Vehicle Loan Fund, as
the successor to the Municipal Heavy Equipment Loan Fund, shall be
administered as provided pursuant to 29 V.S.A. § 1601.
* * * Statement of Policy; Highways and Bridges * * *
Sec. 15. 19 V.S.A. § 10c is amended to read:
§ 10c. STATEMENT OF POLICY; HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES
* * *
(b) For projects that are not on the National Highway System, the Agency
shall develop and implement maintain State standards and guidance for
geometric design.
Design speeds may be lower than legal speeds.
Design
speeds lower than legal speeds may be used without the requirement of a
formal design exception, provided appropriate warnings are posted if


--- Page 57 ---
- 4608 -
appropriate warning signs, signals, and markings are used as provided pursuant
to 23 V.S.A. § 1025.
* * *
* * * Agency of Transportation Duties * * *
Sec. 16. 19 V.S.A. § 10 is amended to read:
§ 10. DUTIES
The Agency shall, except where otherwise specifically provided by law:
* * *
(8)(A) Require any contractor or contractors employed in any project of
the Agency for construction of a transportation improvement to file in the
office of the Secretary a good and sufficient surety bond to the State of
Vermont, executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in this
State in such the sum as required by the Agency shall direct, conditioned for
the compliance by the contractor or contractors and their agents and servants,
with all matters and things set forth and specified to be by the principal kept,
done, and performed at the time and in the manner in the contract between the
Agency and the contractor or contractors specified and to pay over, make
good, and reimburse the State of Vermont for all loss or losses and damage or
damages that the State of Vermont may sustain by reason of failure or default
on the part of the contractor or contractors.
The Agency is authorized to
require any other condition in the bond that may from time to time be
necessary. The Secretary at his or her discretion as to may, if the Secretary
determines that it is in the best interest interests of the State, accept other good
and sufficient surety in lieu of a bond and, in cases involving contracts for
$100,000.00 $250,000.00 or less, may waive the requirement of a performance
bond.
(B) During an emergency event, the Secretary may, in the Secretary’s
discretion, waive the bonding requirements of this subdivision (8) for
immediate, temporary stabilization work related to public safety or State
infrastructure.
Permanent work shall be subject to the requirements of
subdivision (A) of this subdivision (8).
(9)(A) Require any contractor or contractors employed in any project of
the Agency for construction of a transportation improvement to file an
additional surety bond to the Secretary and the Secretary’s successor in office,
for the benefit of labor, materialmen, and others, executed by a surety
company authorized to transact business in this State. The surety bond shall be
in such the sum as required by the Agency shall direct, conditioned for the
payment, settlement, liquidation, and discharge of the claims of all creditors


--- Page 58 ---
- 4609 -
for material,; merchandise,; labor,; rent,; hire of vehicles, power shovels,
rollers, concrete mixers, tools, and other appliances,; professional services,;
premiums,; and other services used or employed in carrying out the terms of
the contract between the contractor and the State and. The surety bond shall
be further conditioned for the following accruing during the term of
performance of the contract: the payment of taxes, both State and municipal,
and the payment of unemployment insurance contributions to the Vermont
Commissioner of Labor; provided, however, in.
(B) In order to obtain the benefit of the security, the claimant shall
file with the Secretary a sworn statement of the claimant’s claim, within 90
days after the final acceptance of the project by the State or within 90 days
from the time the taxes or unemployment contributions to the Vermont
Commissioner of Labor are due and payable, and, within one year after the
filing of the claim, shall bring a petition in the Superior Court in the name of
the Secretary, with notice and summons to the principal, surety, and the
Secretary, to enforce the claim or intervene in a petition already filed.
The
Secretary may, if the Secretary determines that it is in the best interests of the
State, accept other good and sufficient surety in lieu of a bond and, in cases
involving contracts for $100,000.00 $250,000.00 or less, may waive the
requirement of a surety bond.
(C) During an emergency event, the Secretary may, in the Secretary’s
discretion, waive the requirements of this subdivision (9) for immediate
emergency stabilization work related to public safety or State infrastructure.
Permanent work shall be subject to the requirements of subdivision (A) of this
subdivision (9).
* * *
* * * Bridge Inspections; Posting; Closure * * *
Sec. 17. 19 V.S.A. § 1514 is added to read:
§ 1514. BRIDGE INSPECTION; POSTING; CLOSURE
(a) Definition. As used in this section, “bridge” means a structure to which
the National Bridge Inspection Standards apply pursuant to 23 C.F.R.
§ 650.303.
(b)
Bridge inspections.
The Agency shall inspect bridges on State
highways and town highways in accordance with the requirements of the
National Bridge Inspection Standards.
(c) Municipally maintained bridges.


--- Page 59 ---
- 4610 -
(1)
For
a
bridge
for
which
a
municipality
has
maintenance
responsibility, the Agency shall advise the municipality of its inspection
findings and any noted deficiencies.
(2)
The Agency shall notify a municipality if a bridge for which the
municipality has maintenance responsibility requires posting or closure and,
upon receiving notification, the municipality shall post or close the bridge, as
appropriate.
(3)
If necessary to protect the public from an imminent hazard, the
Agency may post or close a bridge for which a municipality has maintenance
responsibility.
(4) A municipality shall be responsible for all costs and expenses related
to the posting or closure of a bridge for which it has maintenance
responsibility, including the costs of any required notifications, procedures,
signage or traffic control devices, and barricades.
(d) Agency-maintained bridges.
(1) For any bridge for which the Agency has maintenance responsibility,
the Agency shall have the sole responsibility and authority to determine
whether the bridge shall be posted or closed, except that a municipality may
close an Agency-maintained bridge during an emergency.
(2)
If a municipality becomes aware of any deficiencies or structural
conditions that could impact the Agency’s determination of whether to post or
close a bridge, the municipality shall promptly notify the Agency.
(3)
The Agency shall be responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with posting or closing an Agency-maintained bridge, including any
required notifications, procedures, signage or traffic control devices, and
barricades.
(e) Enforcement and penalties. In addition to any other penalties provided
by law, a person that violates a bridge posting or closure by a municipality or
the Agency shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.00.
Sec. 18. 23 V.S.A. § 2302 is amended to read:
§ 2302. TRAFFIC VIOLATION DEFINED
(a) As used in this chapter, “traffic violation” means:
* * *
(11) a violation of subsection 1006b(b) of this title, relating to operation
of a prohibited vehicle in Smugglers’ Notch; section 1006c of this title,


--- Page 60 ---
- 4611 -
relating to requirements for use of tire chains; or subsections 4120(a) and (b)
of this title, relating to violations of an out-of-service order; or
(12)
a violation of section 4123 of this title, relating to authorizing
railroad crossing violations; or
(13)
a violation of 19 V.S.A. § 1514, relating to use of a bridge in
violation of a posting or closure.
* * *
* * * Public Transit Advisory Council * * *
Sec. 19. 24 V.S.A. § 5084 is amended to read:
§ 5084. PUBLIC TRANSIT ADVISORY COUNCIL
(a) The Public Transit Advisory Council shall be created by the Secretary
of Transportation under 19 V.S.A. § 7(f)(5), to and shall consist of the
following members:
* * *
(8)
a representative of the Community of Vermont Elders AARP
Vermont;
(9)
a representative of private bus operators and taxi services;
[Repealed.]
(10) a representative of Vermont intercity private bus operators;
* * *
* * * Green Mountain Transit Authority * * *
Sec. 20. 24 App. V.S.A. ch. 801, § 7 is amended to read:
§ 7. Annual budget and assessments
(a) On or before February 15 in each year, the Board of Commissioners
shall prepare a budget for the Authority for the next fiscal year, which shall
include an estimate of the revenue of the Authority from fares and other
sources, except membership assessments, and the expenses for the next fiscal
year, including debt service, and at such time the Board of Commissioners
shall call a meeting of the residents of its members for the purpose of
presenting the proposed budget and inviting discussion thereon. The meeting
shall be held at a place within the County and shall be warned by a notice
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least 15 days
prior to the meeting. The notice shall contain a copy of the proposed budget,
and members of the legislative body of each member municipality shall be
notified of the meeting by certified mail. The proposed budget may include, in


--- Page 61 ---
- 4612 -
addition to revenues from fares and other sources, anticipated voluntary local
match contributions, grants, donations, and other nonassessment revenues that
may be offered by a member municipality or another public or private source.
* * *
(f)(1) The Authority shall be permitted to seek and accept voluntary local
match contributions.
(2) Notwithstanding the formula for apportionment, the Authority may
accept voluntary local match contributions from a member municipality or
another public or private source for the purposes of:
(A) meeting federal, State, or other grant matching requirements; and
(B) supporting Authority programs, capital projects, and operations.
(3)
A voluntary local match contribution accepted pursuant to this
subsection shall be in addition to any assessment required pursuant to this
section and shall not reduce, offset, or otherwise modify the assessment
apportioned to any member municipality pursuant to the formula for
apportionment unless the formula is amended in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
* * * Public-Private Partnership Sunset Extension * * *
Sec. 21. 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 158, Sec. 21 as amended by 2023 Acts
and Resolves No. 62, Sec. 41 is further amended to read:
Sec. 21. REPEAL OF TRANSPORTATION P3 AUTHORITY
19 V.S.A. chapter 26, subchapter 2 shall be repealed on July 1, 2026 2029.
* * * Transportation Board * * *
Sec. 22. 19 V.S.A. § 5 is amended to read:
§ 5. TRANSPORTATION BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES
* * *
(d) Specific duties and responsibilities. The Board shall:
* * *
(7) provide appellate review, when requested in writing by an applicant
or permittee, of Agency decisions and rulings regarding private and
commercial access to State highway rights-of-way pursuant to the permit
process established in section 1111 of this title;
* * *


--- Page 62 ---
- 4613 -
* * * Transportation Alternatives Grant Program * * *
Sec. 23. 19 V.S.A. § 38 is amended to read:
§ 38. TRANSPORTATION ALTERNATIVES GRANT PROGRAM
(a), (b) [Repealed.]
(c) The Transportation Alternatives Grant Program is created. The Grant
Program shall be administered by the Agency and shall be funded in the
amount provided for in 23 U.S.C. § 133(h), less the funds set aside for the
Recreational Trails Program.
Awards shall be made to eligible entities as
defined under 23 U.S.C. § 133(h), and awards under the Grant Program shall
be limited to the activities authorized under federal law and shall not exceed
$300,000.00 $600,000.00 per grant allocation.
* * *
(f)(1) In fiscal year 2024 2027 and thereafter, 50 percent of Grant Program
funds, or such lesser sum if all eligible applications amount to less than 50
percent of Grant Program funds, shall be reserved for municipalities for
environmental mitigation projects relating to stormwater and highways,
including eligible salt and sand shed projects, and the balance of Grant
Program
funds shall
be awarded for
any eligible activity,
including
environmental mitigation projects relating to stormwater and highways, such
as eligible salt and sand shed projects, and infrastructure-related projects and
systems that will provide safe routes for nondrivers, and in accordance with
the priorities established in subdivision (2) of this subsection.
(2) In evaluating applications for Transportation Alternatives grants, the
Agency shall give preferential weighting to sand and salt shed projects and
projects involving as a primary feature a bicycle or pedestrian facility.
The
degree of preferential weighting and the circumstantial factors sufficient to
overcome the weighting shall be in the complete discretion of the Agency.
* * *
Sec. 24. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 62, Sec. 11 is amended to read:
Sec. 11. TRANSPORTATION ALTERNATIVES GRANT PROGRAM
AWARDS IN STATE FISCAL YEARS 2024 TO 2027
Notwithstanding 19 V.S.A. § 38(c), Transportation Alternatives Grant
Program awards in State fiscal years 2024 to 2027 2026 shall not exceed
$600,000.00 per grant allocation.
Notwithstanding 19 V.S.A. § 38(c),
Transportation Alternatives Grant Program awards in State fiscal year 2027
shall not exceed $1,200,000.00 per grant allocation.


--- Page 63 ---
- 4614 -
* * * Consultation Regarding Municipal Programs * * *
Sec. 25. MUNICIPAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS; ONGOING
EVALUATION; IDENTIFICATION OF IMPROVEMENTS
(a) In addition to ongoing work pursuant to 2025 Acts and Resolves No.
43, Sec. 15, the Agency of Transportation, in consultation with the Vermont
League of Cities and Towns and the Vermont Association of Planning and
Development Agencies, shall:
(1)
continue examining the requirements of 19 V.S.A. § 309c,
cancellation of locally managed projects, as set forth in 2025 Acts and
Resolves No. 43, Sec. 14, to evaluate the obligations, risks, and benefits
imposed by the provisions of that section on the State and the local sponsor of
a locally managed project and to identify potential changes to the provisions of
that section to ensure that State and federal transportation funding resources
are appropriately administered;
(2) continue evaluating the State’s Town Highway Aid and municipal
grant programs administered by the Agency, as set forth in 2025 Acts and
Resolves No. 43, Sec. 16, to identify potential efficiencies and improvements
related to the administration of Town Highway Aid and municipal grant
programs; and
(3)(A)
examine the provisions in the Vermont statutes related to the
procedures for establishing speed limits; and
(B)
identify potential opportunities to simplify and clarify those
provisions to assist municipalities in meeting local needs, including safety and
context sensitivity.
(b) The Agency shall, on or before January 15, 2027, submit to the House
and Senate Committees on Transportation any recommendations for legislative
action.
* * * Drive Electric Vermont * * *
Sec. 26. DRIVE ELECTRIC VERMONT; APPROPRIATION
In State fiscal year 2027, the sum of $242,000.00 is appropriated from the
Transportation Fund to the Agency of
Transportation to support
the
continuation of the Agency’s partnership with Drive Electric Vermont.
The
monies shall be used for programs and activities that support increased
ownership and use of plug-in electric vehicles in the State through:
(1) stakeholder coordination;
(2) consumer education and outreach;


--- Page 64 ---
- 4615 -
(3) infrastructure development; and
(4)
the provision of technical assistance and support to Vermont
municipalities and Vermont businesses desiring to electrify their vehicle fleets.
* * * Caledonia County State Airport * * *
Sec. 27. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 62, Sec. 8 is amended to read:
Sec. 8. SALE OR LEASE OF CALEDONIA COUNTY STATE
AIRPORT
* * *
(c) Any such conveyance shall:
* * *
(4)
ensure that the Airport continues to be identified as a public-use
airport within the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems until at least
2050, subject to federal determination;
(5)
include, if the Airport is conveyed through a purchase and sale
agreement, a six-month right of first refusal, running from the date that the
owner of the Airport provides notice to the State of an intent to sell the
Airport, for the State to repurchase the Airport at fair market value before the
Airport is resold or transferred to a new owner; and
(6)(5) include, if the Airport is leased, that the lease cannot be either
assigned or the lessor cannot sub-lease all or substantially all of the Airport
without the written approval of the Vermont Secretary of Transportation.
* * *
Sec. 28. 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 62, Sec. 9 is amended to read:
Sec. 9. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY FOR SALE OR LEASE OF
CALEDONIA COUNTY STATE AIRPORT
Sec. 8 of this act shall be repealed on May 1, 2026 November 1, 2027.
* * * Medical Transports * * *
Sec. 29. PUBLIC TRANSIT DEMAND RESPONSE MEDICAL
TRANSPORTS; VOLUNTEER DRIVERS; MOBILITY
MANAGEMENT; GRANTS
The Agency of Transportation is authorized to utilize amounts appropriated
for supplemental nonemergency medical transportation funding in fiscal year
2027 for the purpose of providing competitive grants to public transit agencies
to support the recruitment and retention of volunteer drivers and mobility


--- Page 65 ---
- 4616 -
management activities intended to reduce costs related to nonemergency
medical transports.
Sec. 30. 19 V.S.A. § 2908 is added to read:
§ 2908. PUBLIC EVSE; REAL-TIME STATUS; AVAILABILITY
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a charging network
provider shall, for any networked publicly funded and available charging
station in Vermont that is installed or reconditioned on or after September 30,
2026, ensure that the following data fields are made available, free of charge,
to third-party software developers via an application programming interface:
(1) a unique charging station name or identifier;
(2)
the address of the property where the charging station is located,
including street address, city, and ZIP code;
(3) the geographic coordinates in decimal degrees of the exact charging
station location;
(4) the charging station operator name;
(5) the charging network provider name;
(6)
the charging station status, including whether the station is
operational, under construction, planned, or decommissioned;
(7) charging station access information, including:
(A) the charging station access type, such as whether it may be used
by the public or is limited to use by commercial vehicles; and
(B) the charging station access days and times, including the hours of
operation for the charging station;
(8) charging port information, including:
(A) the number of charging ports;
(B) the unique port identifier for each port;
(C) the connector types available by port;
(D) the charging level by port, such as DCFC or AC Level 2;
(E)
the maximum power delivery rating in kilowatts by charging
port;
(F) the maximum output voltage by charging port;
(G) accessibility by a vehicle with a trailer by port (yes/no); and


--- Page 66 ---
- 4617 -
(H)
the real-time status by port in terms defined by Open Charge
Point Interface 2.2.1; and
(9) pricing and payment information, including:
(A) the pricing structure;
(B)
the real-time price to charge at each charging port, in terms
defined by Open Charge Point Interface 2.2.1; and
(C) the payment methods accepted at the charging station, including
whether credit, debit, or contactless forms of payment are accepted.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall apply to a publicly funded and
available charging station at all times that a member of the public may use the
associated EVSE to charge a PEV.
(c) The provisions of this section may be enforced by:
(1) any State agency or department that provides or administers grants,
loans, or other incentives to support the construction or operation of publicly
funded and available charging stations; and
(2) the Department of Public Service for publicly funded and available
charging stations that have received a grant, loan, or other incentive provided
by one or more Vermont retail electricity providers.
(d) A charging network provider may attach reasonable conditions to data
use that are designed to protect confidential business information, provided
that the conditions do not prevent third-party software developers from
accessing the real-time information required pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section.
(e)(1) A State agency or department that provides a grant, loan, or other
incentive for the construction or operation of a charging station that is installed
or reconditioned on or after September 30, 2026, shall require the recipient to
notify the relevant charging network provider that the provisions of this
section apply to a charging station.
(2)
A retail electricity provider, if it provides a grant, loan, or other
incentive for the construction or operation of a charging station that is installed
or reconditioned on or after September 30, 2026, shall require the recipient to
notify the relevant charging network provider that the provisions of this
section apply to the charging station.
(f) As used in this section:
(1)
“Real-time” means that the applicable data field must be updated
within one minute following a change in the charging port’s status.


--- Page 67 ---
- 4618 -
(2) “Retail electricity provider” has the same meaning as in 30 V.S.A.
§ 8002.
* * * EVSE Installation in Common Interest Communities * * *
Sec. 31. 27A V.S.A. § 1-204 is amended to read:
§ 1-204. PREEXISTING COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITIES
(a)(1)
Unless excepted under section 1-203 of this title, the following
sections and subdivisions of this title apply to a common interest community
created in this State before January 1, 1999: sections 1-103, 1-105, 1-106, 1-
107, 2-103, 2-104, and 2-121, subdivisions 3-102(a)(1) through (6) 3-
102(a)(1)–(6) and (11) through (16) (11)–(16), and sections 3-111, 3-116, 3-
118, 4-109, and 4-117 to the extent necessary to construe the applicable
sections.
The sections and subdivisions described in this subdivision apply
only to events and circumstances occurring after December 31, 1998, and do
not invalidate existing provisions of the declarations, bylaws, plats, or plans of
those common interest communities.
* * *
(3) Unless excepted under section 1-203 of this title, section 3-125 of
this title shall apply to all common interest communities that contain 12 or
more units that may be used for residential purposes created in this State on or
before January 1, 2011.
Section 3-125 applies only to events and
circumstances occurring after June 30, 2026, and does not invalidate existing
provisions of the declarations, bylaws, plats, or plans of those common interest
communities.
* * *
Sec. 32. 27A V.S.A. § 3-125 is added to read:
§ 3-125. ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT
(a) As used in this section:
(1)
“Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)” means a device or
system designed and used specifically to transfer electrical energy to a plug-in
electric vehicle.
(2)
“EVSE owner” means the unit owner who applies to install an
EVSE and each successive unit owner associated with the initial application to
install the EVSE unless there is a specific change in ownership of the EVSE,
in which case the EVSE owner shall be the owner specified in a conveying
document memorializing the change in ownership of the EVSE.


--- Page 68 ---
- 4619 -
(3)
“Plug-in electric vehicle” has the same meaning as in 23 V.S.A.
§ 4(85).
(4) “Reasonable restriction” is a restriction that does not significantly
increase the cost of the EVSE or significantly decrease the efficiency or
specified performance of the EVSE.
(b)(1)
Any covenant, restriction, or condition contained in any deed,
contract, security instrument, or other instrument affecting the transfer or sale
of any interest in a common interest community, and any provision of a
governing document associated with a common interest community, such as a
declaration, bylaw, or rule, that either effectively prohibits or unreasonably
restricts the installation of EVSE within the boundaries of a unit owner’s unit
or limited common element or the unit owner’s exclusively designated parking
space or the use of such EVSE for noncommercial purposes by a unit owner or
the occupants of the unit owner’s unit or is in conflict with this section is void
and unenforceable.
(2) This subsection shall not apply to provisions that impose reasonable
restrictions on EVSE.
However, it is the policy of the State to promote,
encourage, and remove obstacles to the use of plug-in electric vehicles,
including access to EVSE at home.
(3) Installation of EVSE shall not be deemed a division or reallocation
of a common element and shall not alter the allocated interests of any unit
owner.
(c) The association may require the unit owner to:
(1)
comply with federal, State, and local health and safety laws,
including any applicable building codes or safety standards;
(2)
comply with reasonable architectural standards adopted by the
association that govern the dimensions, placement, or external appearance of
the EVSE, provided that such standards shall not prohibit the installation of
such EVSE or substantially increase the costs thereof;
(3) engage the services of a licensed electrician to install the EVSE;
(4) if the EVSE is installed in a common element or limited common
element, reimburse the association for the actual costs of any increased
insurance premium amount attributable to the EVSE with 14 days after
receiving the association’s insurance premium invoice; and
(5) comply with any other reasonable restrictions the association may
impose.


--- Page 69 ---
- 4620 -
(d)
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the association’s
governing documents, if the executive board of the association determines that
the cumulative or additional use of electricity due to the installation and use of
EVSE requires infrastructure improvements to provide a sufficient supply of
electricity for the EVSE, the association may assess the cost of the required
improvements against the unit of each unit owner that has installed, or will
install, EVSE.
(e)
If approval is required for the installation or use of EVSE, the
application for approval shall be processed and approved by the association in
the same manner
as an application for approval
of an architectural
modification to the common interest community and shall not be intentionally
avoided or delayed.
The approval or denial of an application shall be in
writing. If an application is not denied in writing within 90 days from the date
of receipt of the application, the application shall be deemed approved, unless
that delay is the result of a reasonable request for additional information.
(f)
The unit owner and each successive owner of the EVSE shall be
responsible for all of the following:
(1)
costs for damage to the EVSE, common element, or limited
common element resulting from the installation, maintenance, repair, removal,
or replacement of the EVSE;
(2) costs for the installation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the
EVSE until the EVSE has been removed and for the restoration of the
common element or limited common element after removal;
(3) cost of electricity associated with the EVSE; and
(4) unless the successor owner of the unit agrees in writing to undertake
and comply with the unit owner’s responsibilities with respect to the EVSE,
removing the EVSE prior to the sale and restoring any affected common
element or limited common element.
* * * Intelligent Speed Assistance * * *
Sec. 33. INTELLIGENT SPEED ASSISTANCE; IMPLEMENTATION AND
COST EVALUATION; REPORT
(a)
The Department of Motor Vehicles shall examine the potential to
implement and administer an intelligent speed assistance program, including
the following issues:
(1)
intelligent speed assistance programs that have been or will be
implemented in other states and the District of Columbia;


--- Page 70 ---
- 4621 -
(2)
costs for the State to implement an intelligent speed assistance
program; and
(3) potential costs to drivers who choose to participate in an intelligent
speed assistance program.
(b) On or before January 15, 2027, the Department shall submit a written
report to the House and Senate Committees on Transportation regarding its
findings and any recommendations for legislative action.
* * * Repeals; Log Drives * * *
Sec. 34. REPEALS; LOG DRIVES
The following sections are repealed:
(1) 25 V.S.A. § 241 (application of provisions);
(2) 25 V.S.A. § 242 (petition to Public Utility Commission);
(3) 25 V.S.A. § 243 (notice and hearing; decision);
(4) 25 V.S.A. § 244 (judgment on decision); and
(5) 25 V.S.A. § 245 (bond of foreign corporation).
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 35. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a)
Secs. 8 (mileage-based user fee), 9 (infrastructure fee for plug-in
hybrids), 10 (initial transition for mileage-based user fee), and 30 (real-time
status requirements for public EVSE) shall take effect on January 1, 2027.
(b) Notwithstanding 1 V.S.A. § 214, Sec. 28 (extension of authority to sell
Caledonia County State Airport) shall take effect retroactively on April 30,
2026.
(c) The remaining sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
SEN. RICHARD A. WESTMAN
SEN. ANDREW J. PERCHLIK
SEN. WENDY K. HARRISON
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. MATTHEW E. WALKER
REP. TIMOTHY R. CORCORAN
REP. PHIL POUECH
Committee on the part of the House


--- Page 71 ---
- 4622 -
Addendum to the Report of Committee of Conference
H. 944
An act relating to the fiscal year 2027 Transportation Program and
miscellaneous changes to laws related to transportation.
In the report of the Committee of Conference, after Sec. 29, by inserting a
new section to be Sec. 29a and its reader assistance heading to read as follows:
* * * Real-Time Status of Public EVSE * * *
Sec. 29a. 19 V.S.A. § 2901 is amended to read:
§ 2901. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(2)
“Charging network provider” means a person that operates the
digital communication network that remotely manages the EVSE at a charging
station.
(3) “Charging station” means the area in the immediate vicinity of one
or more EVSE and includes the EVSE, supporting equipment, parking areas
adjacent to the EVSE, and lanes for vehicle ingress and egress. A charging
station may comprise only a portion of the property on which it is located.
(4) “Charging station operator” means a person that owns or provides
the EVSE and the supporting equipment and facilities at one or more charging
stations and is responsible for operating and maintaining the EVSE, supporting
equipment, and facilities. A charging station operator may delegate to another
person or contract with another person for charging station operation and
maintenance.
(5) “Connector” means a device that attaches EVSE to a PEV to transfer
electricity from the EVSE to the PEV.
(6) “Direct current fast charger” or “DCFC” means EVSE that enables
charging through the delivery of direct current electricity to a PEV’s battery.
(7) “Electric bicycle” has the same meaning as in 23 V.S.A. § 4(46)(A).
(3)(8)
“Electric cargo bicycle” means a motor-assisted bicycle, as
defined in 23 V.S.A. § 4(45)(B)(i), with an electric motor, as defined under
23 V.S.A. § 4(45)(B)(i)(II), that is specifically designed and constructed for
transporting loads, including at least one or more of the following: goods, one
or more individuals in addition to the operator, or one or more animals.
A
motor-assisted bicycle that is not specifically designed and constructed for


--- Page 72 ---
- 4623 -
transporting loads, including a motor-assisted bicycle that is only capable of
transporting loads because an accessory rear or front bicycle rack has been
installed, is not an electric cargo bicycle.
(4)(9)
“Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)” and “electric
vehicle supply equipment available to the public” have the same meanings as
in 30 V.S.A. § 201.
(10) “Level 2 EVSE” means EVSE with a single-phase input voltage
range from 208 to 277 volts of alternating current (AC) and maximum output
current of not more than 80 amperes AC.
(5)(11)
“Plug-in electric vehicle (PEV),” “battery electric vehicle
(BEV),” and “plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV)” have the same
meanings as in 23 V.S.A. § 4(85).
(12) “Port” means a system or connecting outlet on EVSE that provides
power to charge a PEV, provided that a port may be equipped with more than
one connector but shall only use one connector at a time to provide power to a
PEV.
(13) “Publicly funded and available charging station” means a charging
station that has received, or expects to receive, a grant, loan, or other incentive
from a federal or State government source or from funds provided by Vermont
retail electricity providers and that is publicly available.
SEN. RICHARD A. WESTMAN
SEN. ANDREW J. PERCHLIK
SEN. WENDY K. HARRISON
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. MATTHEW E. WALKER
REP. TIMOTHY R. CORCORAN
REP. PHIL POUECH
Committee on the part of the House
NOTICE CALENDAR
House Proposal of Amendment
S. 71.
An act relating to consumer data privacy and online surveillance.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. 9 V.S.A. chapter 61A is added to read:


--- Page 73 ---
- 4624 -
CHAPTER 61A. DATA PRIVACY
Subchapter 1. Vermont Data Privacy and Online Surveillance Act
§ 2415a. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS
(a) Short title. This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Vermont Data Privacy and Online Surveillance Act.”
(b) Definitions. As used in this subchapter:
(1)(A)
“Affiliate” means a legal entity that shares common branding
with another legal entity or controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with another legal entity.
(B) As used in subdivision (A) of this subdivision (1), “control” or
“controlled” means:
(i) ownership of, or the power to vote, more than 50 percent of the
outstanding shares of any class of voting security of a company;
(ii) control in any manner over the election of a majority of the
directors or of individuals exercising similar functions; or
(iii)
the power to exercise controlling influence over the
management of a company.
(2) “Authenticate” means to use reasonable means to determine that a
request to exercise any of the rights afforded under subdivisions 2415d(a)(1)–
(4) of this subchapter is being made by, or on behalf of, the consumer who is
entitled to exercise the consumer rights with respect to the personal data at
issue.
(3)(A)
“Biometric data” means data generated from the technological
processing of an individual’s unique biological, physical, or physiological
characteristics that are collected on or used to identify a specific consumer,
including:
(i) iris or retina scans;
(ii) fingerprints;
(iii) facial or hand mapping, geometry, or templates;
(iv) vein patterns;
(v) voice prints or vocal biomarkers; and
(vi) gait or personally identifying physical movement or patterns.
(B) “Biometric data” does not include:


--- Page 74 ---
- 4625 -
(i) a digital or physical photograph;
(ii) an audio or video recording; or
(iii) any data generated from a digital or physical photograph or
an audio or video recording, unless such data is generated to identify a specific
individual.
(4) “Business associate” has the same meaning as in HIPAA.
(5) “Child” has the same meaning as in COPPA.
(6)(A)
“Collect,” “collected,” or “collection” means buying, renting,
gathering, obtaining, receiving, or accessing any personal data by any means,
other than such activities between a controller and a processor or between a
processor and its subcontractors.
(B)
“Collect,” “collected,” or “collection” includes receiving data
from the consumer, either actively or passively, or by observing the
consumer’s behavior.
(7)(A) “Consent” means a clear affirmative act signifying a consumer’s
freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous agreement to allow the
processing of personal data relating to the consumer.
(B)
“Consent” may include a written statement, including by
electronic means, or any other unambiguous affirmative action.
(C) “Consent” does not include:
(i)
acceptance of a general or broad terms of use or similar
document that contains descriptions of personal data processing along with
other, unrelated information;
(ii)
hovering over, muting, pausing, or closing a given piece of
content; or
(iii) agreement obtained through the use of dark patterns.
(8)(A) “Consumer” means an individual who is a resident of the State.
(B)
“Consumer” does not include an individual acting in a
commercial or employment context or as an employee, owner, director, officer,
or contractor of a company, partnership, sole proprietorship, nonprofit
organization, or government agency whose communications or transactions
with the controller occur solely within the context of that individual’s role with
the company, partnership, sole proprietorship, nonprofit organization, or
government agency.


--- Page 75 ---
- 4626 -
(9) “Consumer health data” means any personal data that a controller
uses to identify a consumer’s physical or mental health condition, diagnosis, or
status, including gender-affirming health data and reproductive or sexual
health data.
(10) “Consumer health data controller” means any controller that, alone
or jointly with others, determines the purpose and means of processing
consumer health data.
(11) “Consumer reporting agency” has the same meaning as in the Fair
Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1681a(f).
(12)
“Controller” means a person who, alone or jointly with others,
determines the purpose and means of processing personal data.
(13) “COPPA” means the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of
1998, 15 U.S.C. §§ 6501–6506, and any regulations, rules, guidance, and
exemptions adopted pursuant to the act, as the act and regulations, rules,
guidance, and exemptions may be amended.
(14) “Covered entity” has the same meaning as in HIPAA.
(15) “Credit union” has the same meaning as in 8 V.S.A. § 30101.
(16)
“Dark pattern” means a user interface designed or manipulated
with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user autonomy, decision
making, or choice and includes any practice the Federal Trade Commission
refers to as a “dark pattern.”
(17) “Decision that produces any legal or similarly significant effect”
means any decision made by the controller, or on behalf of the controller, that
results in the provision or denial by the controller of any financial or lending
service, any housing, any insurance, any education enrollment or opportunity,
any criminal justice, any employment opportunity, or any health care service.
(18) “Deidentified data” means data that does not identify and cannot
reasonably be used to infer information about, or otherwise be linked to, an
identified or identifiable individual, or a device linked to the individual, if the
controller that possesses the data:
(A)(i)
takes reasonable measures to ensure that the data cannot be
used to reidentify an identified or identifiable individual or be associated with
an individual or device that identifies or is linked or reasonably linkable to an
individual; and
(ii)
for purposes of this subdivision (A), “reasonable measures”
includes the deidentification requirements set forth under 45 C.F.R § 164.514


--- Page 76 ---
- 4627 -
(other requirements relating to uses and disclosures of protected health
information);
(B)
publicly commits to process the data only in a deidentified
fashion and not attempt to reidentify the data; and
(C) contractually obligates any recipients of the data to comply with
all provisions of this subchapter.
(19)
“Derived data” means data that is created by the derivation of
information,
data,
assumptions,
correlations,
inferences,
predictions,
or
conclusions from facts, evidence, or another source of information or data
about a consumer’s device.
(20) “Gender-affirming health care services” has the same meaning as in
1 V.S.A. § 150.
(21)
“Gender-affirming
health
data”
means
any
personal
data
concerning a past, present, or future effort made by a consumer to seek, or a
consumer’s receipt of, gender-affirming health care services.
(22) “Genetic data” means any data, regardless of its format, that results
from the analysis of a biological sample of an individual, or from another
source enabling equivalent information to be obtained, and concerns genetic
material, including deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA), ribonucleic acids (RNA),
genes, chromosomes, alleles, genomes, alterations or modifications to DNA or
RNA,
single
nucleotide
polymorphisms
(SNPs),
epigenetic
markers,
uninterpreted data that results from analysis of the biological sample or other
source, and any information extrapolated, derived, or inferred therefrom.
(23)
“Geofence” means any technology that uses global positioning
coordinates,
cell
tower
connectivity,
cellular
data,
radio
frequency
identification, wireless fidelity technology data, or any other form of location
detection, or any combination of such coordinates, connectivity, data,
identification, or other form of location detection, to establish a virtual
boundary.
(24) “Health care facility” has the same meaning as in 18 V.S.A. § 9432.
(25)
“HIPAA”
means
the
Health
Insurance
Portability
and
Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-191, as may be amended.
(26) “Hybrid entity” has the same meaning as in HIPAA.
(27) “Identified or identifiable individual” means an individual who can
be readily identified, directly or indirectly, including by reference to an
identifier such as a name, an identification number, precise geolocation data,
or an online identifier.


--- Page 77 ---
- 4628 -
(28)
“Institution of higher education” means any individual who, or
school, board, association, limited liability company, or corporation that, is
licensed or accredited to offer one or more programs of higher learning leading
to one or more degrees.
(29) “Mental health facility” means any health care facility in which at
least 70 percent of the health care services provided in the facility are mental
health services.
(30) “Minor” means any consumer who is younger than 18 years of age.
(31)
“Neural data” means any information that is generated by
measuring the activity of an individual’s central nervous system.
(32) “Nonprofit organization” means any organization that is qualified
for tax exempt status under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), or
501(c)(12), or any corresponding internal revenue code of the United States, as
may be amended.
(33)
“Patient-identifying information” has the same meaning as in
42 C.F.R. § 2.11 (confidentiality of substance use disorder patient records).
(34)
“Person” means an individual, association, company, limited
liability company, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, trust, or other
legal entity.
(35)(A) “Personal data” means any information, including derived data
and unique identifiers, that is linked or reasonably linkable, alone or in
combination with other information, to an identified or identifiable individual
or to a device that identifies, is linked to, or is reasonably linkable to one or
more identified or identifiable individuals.
(B)
“Personal data” does not include deidentified data or publicly
available information.
(36)(A)
“Precise geolocation data” means information derived from
technology, including global positioning system level latitude and longitude
coordinates or other mechanisms, that directly identifies the specific location
of an individual with precision and accuracy within a radius of 1,750 feet.
(B) “Precise geolocation data” does not include:
(i) the content of communications;
(ii) data generated by or connected to an advanced utility metering
infrastructure system; or
(iii) data generated by equipment used by a utility company.


--- Page 78 ---
- 4629 -
(37) “Process” or “processing” means any operation or set of operations
performed, whether by manual or automated means, on personal data or on
sets of personal data, such as the collection, use, storage, disclosure, analysis,
deletion, or modification of personal data.
(38) “Processor” means a person who collects or processes personal data
on behalf of:
(A) a controller; or
(B) another processor.
(39) “Profiling” means any form of automated processing performed on
personal data to evaluate, analyze, or predict personal aspects, including an
individual’s
economic
situation,
health,
personal
preferences,
interests,
reliability, behavior, location, movements, or identifying characteristics.
(40) “Protected health information” has the same meaning as in HIPAA.
(41) “Pseudonymous data” means personal data that cannot be attributed
to a specific individual without the use of additional information, provided the
additional information is kept separately and is subject to appropriate technical
and organizational measures to ensure that the personal data are not attributed
to an identified or identifiable individual.
(42)(A) “Publicly available information” means information that:
(i) is made available through federal, state, or local government
records or to the general public from widely distributed media; or
(ii) a controller has a reasonable basis to believe that the consumer
has lawfully made available to the general public.
(B) “Publicly available information” does not include:
(i)
biometric data collected by a business about a consumer
without the consumer’s knowledge;
(ii)
information that is collated and combined to create a
consumer profile that is made available to a user of a publicly available
website either in exchange for payment or free of charge;
(iii) an inference that is generated from the information described
in subdivision (ii) of this subdivision (42)(B);
(iv) solely for the purposes set forth in subdivisions 2415d(a)(1),
(2), and (4) of this subchapter, information that is made available for sale;
(v) any obscene visual depiction, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1460;


--- Page 79 ---
- 4630 -
(vi)
personal data that is created through the combination of
personal data with publicly available information;
(vii) genetic data, unless otherwise made publicly available by the
consumer to whom the information pertains;
(viii) information provided by a consumer on a website or online
service made available to all members of the public, for free or for a fee,
where the consumer has maintained a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
information, such as by restricting the information to a specific audience; or
(ix) intimate images, authentic or computer generated, known to
be nonconsensual.
(43)
“Reproductive or sexual health care” has the same meaning as
“reproductive health care services” in 1 V.S.A. § 150(c).
(44)
“Reproductive or sexual health data” means any personal data
concerning an effort made by a consumer to seek, or a consumer’s receipt of,
reproductive or sexual health care.
(45)
“Reproductive or sexual health facility” means any health care
facility in which at least 70 percent of the health care–related services or
products rendered or provided in the facility are reproductive or sexual health
care.
(46)(A)
“Sale of personal data” means the exchange of a consumer’s
personal data by the controller with a third party for monetary or other
valuable consideration.
(B) “Sale of personal data” does not include:
(i) the disclosure of personal data to a processor that processes the
personal data on behalf of the controller;
(ii) the disclosure of personal data to a third party for purposes of
providing a product or service requested by the consumer;
(iii) the disclosure or transfer of personal data to an affiliate of the
controller;
(iv) the disclosure of personal data when the consumer directs the
controller to disclose the personal data or intentionally uses the controller to
interact with a third party;
(v) the disclosure of personal data that the consumer:
(I)
intentionally made available to the general public via a
channel of mass media; and


--- Page 80 ---
- 4631 -
(II) did not restrict to a specific audience; or
(vi) the disclosure or transfer of personal data to a third party as
an asset that is part of a merger, acquisition, bankruptcy, or other transaction,
or a proposed merger, acquisition, bankruptcy, or other transaction, in which
the third party assumes control of all or part of the controller’s assets.
(47) “Sensitive data” means personal data that includes:
(A) data revealing:
(i)
racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs, sex life, sexual
orientation, status as nonbinary or transgender, or citizenship or immigration
status; or
(ii) a mental or physical health condition, diagnosis, disability, or
treatment;
(B) consumer health data;
(C) genetic or biometric data or information derived therefrom;
(D)
personal data collected from an individual the controller has
actual knowledge, or willfully disregards, is a child;
(E) precise geolocation data;
(F) neural data;
(G) a consumer’s financial account number, financial account login
information, or credit card or debit card number that, in combination with any
required access or security code, password, or credential, would allow access
to a consumer’s financial account; or
(H)
a government-issued identification number, including, but not
limited to, Social Security number, passport number, State identification card
number, or driver’s license number, that applicable law does not require to be
publicly displayed.
(48)(A)
“Targeted advertising” means displaying advertisements to a
consumer where the advertisement is selected based on personal data obtained
or inferred from that consumer’s activities over time and across nonaffiliated
websites or online applications to predict the consumer’s preferences or
interests.
(B) “Targeted advertising” does not include:
(i)
an advertisement based on activities within the controller’s
own website or online application;


--- Page 81 ---
- 4632 -
(ii) an advertisement based on the context of a consumer’s current
search query or visit to a website or online application;
(iii) an advertisement directed to a consumer in response to the
consumer’s request for information or feedback; or
(iv)
processing of personal data solely to measure or report
advertising frequency, performance, or reach.
(49) “Third party” means a person, public authority, agency, or body,
other than the consumer, controller, or processor or an affiliate of the processor
or the controller.
(50) “Trade secret” has the same meaning as in section 4601 of this title.
§ 2415b. APPLICABILITY
(a) Thresholds. Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this
subchapter applies to a person that conducts business in this State or a person
that produces products or services that are targeted to residents of this State
and that during the preceding calendar year:
(1) controlled or processed the personal data of not fewer than 35,000
consumers, excluding personal data controlled or processed solely for the
purpose of completing a payment transaction;
(2) controlled or processed the sensitive data of not fewer than 3,000
consumers, excluding personal data controlled or processed solely for the
purposes of completing a payment transaction; or
(3) offered for sale in trade or commerce the personal data of not fewer
than 3,000 consumers.
(b)
Health data applicability.
Section 2415k of this subchapter and the
provisions of this subchapter concerning consumer health data and consumer
health data controllers apply to a person that conducts business in this State or
a person that produces products or services that are targeted to residents of this
State.
(c) Controlling law. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of
this subchapter and any other law, including the Vermont Age-Appropriate
Design Code Act, the provisions of the law that afford the greatest protection
for the right of privacy for consumers shall control.
§ 2415c. EXEMPTIONS
(a) This subchapter does not apply to:


--- Page 82 ---
- 4633 -
(1) in the ordinary course of its operation, a federal, state, tribal, or local
government entity or an instrumentality of the State;
(2)(A) a covered entity that is not a hybrid entity;
(B) any health care component of a hybrid entity; or
(C) a business associate;
(3)
patient-identifying information,
for
purposes of
42
U.S.C.
§ 290DD–2;
(4)(A) information to the extent it is used for public health, community
health, or population health activities and purposes, as authorized by HIPAA,
when provided by or to a covered entity or when provided by or to a business
associate in accordance with the business associate agreement with a covered
entity;
(B) information that is a health care record, as that term is defined in
18 V.S.A. § 9419, if the information is held by an entity that is a covered entity
or business associate under HIPAA because it collects, uses, or discloses
protected health information;
(C)
information that is deidentified in accordance with the
requirements for deidentification set forth in 45 C.F.R. § 164.514 and that is
derived from individually identifiable health information as described in
HIPAA; and
(D)
personal information consistent with the human subject
protection requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration;
(5)
information used only for public health activities and purposes
described in 45 C.F.R. § 164.512 (disclosure of protected health information
without authorization);
(6) information that identifies a consumer in connection with:
(A) activities that are subject to the Federal Policy for the Protection
of Human Subjects, codified as 45 C.F.R. Part 46 (HHS protection of human
subjects) and in various other federal regulations;
(B) activities that are subject to the protections provided in 21 C.F.R.
Parts 50 (FDA clinical investigations protection of human subjects) and
56 (FDA clinical investigations institutional review boards); or
(C) research conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth
in subdivisions (A) and (B) of this subdivision (a)(6) or otherwise in
accordance with applicable law;


--- Page 83 ---
- 4634 -
(7)
patient-identifying information that is collected and processed in
accordance with 42 C.F.R. Part 2 (confidentiality of substance use disorder
patient records);
(8) patient safety work product that is created and used for purposes of
patient safety improvement in accordance with 42 C.F.R. § 3, established in
accordance with 42 U.S.C. §§ 299b–21 through 299b–26;
(9) information or documents created for the purposes of the Healthcare
Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101–11152, and regulations
adopted to implement that act;
(10) information processed or maintained solely in connection with, and
for the purpose of, enabling notice of an emergency to persons that an
individual specifies;
(11)
any activity that involves collecting, maintaining, disclosing,
selling, communicating, or using information for the purpose of evaluating a
consumer’s creditworthiness,
credit standing,
credit capacity,
character,
general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living if done strictly
in accordance with the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C.
§§ 1681–1681x, as may be amended, by:
(A) a consumer reporting agency;
(B)
a person who furnishes information to a consumer reporting
agency
under
15
U.S.C.
§ 1681s-2
(responsibilities
of
furnishers
of
information to consumer reporting agencies); or
(C) a person who uses a consumer report as provided in 15 U.S.C.
§ 1681b(a)(3) (permissible purposes of consumer reports);
(12) information collected, processed, sold, or disclosed under and in
accordance with the following laws and regulations:
(A) the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2721–
2725;
(B) data that is subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g, and regulations adopted to implement that act;
(C) data that is subject to the Airline Deregulation Act, Pub. L. No.
95-504, only to the extent that an air carrier collects information related to
prices, routes, or services, and only to the extent that the provisions of the
Airline Deregulation Act preempt this subchapter;
(D) data that is subject to the Farm Credit Act, Pub. L. No. 92-181,
as may be amended; and


--- Page 84 ---
- 4635 -
(E)
data that is subject to federal policy under 21 U.S.C. § 830
(regulation of listed chemicals and certain machines);
(13) data subject to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Pub. L. No.
106-102, and regulations adopted to implement that act;
(14) a state- or federally chartered bank or credit union, or an affiliate or
subsidiary that is principally engaged in financial activities, as described in
12 U.S.C. § 1843(k);
(15) an agent, broker-dealer, investment adviser, or investment adviser
representative, as those terms are defined in section 5102 of this title, who is
regulated by the Department of Financial Regulation or the Securities and
Exchange Commission;
(16) a person regulated pursuant to 8 V.S.A. part 3 (chapters 101–165)
other than a person who, alone or in combination with another person,
establishes and maintains a self-insurance program and who does not otherwise
engage in the business of entering into policies of insurance;
(17) health care providers and health care facilities, as those terms are
defined in 18 V.S.A. § 9402, provided such providers and facilities maintain
all protected health information in accordance with the requirements of
18 V.S.A. § 1881 and HIPAA regardless of whether such providers or facilities
are covered entities under 45 C.F.R. § 160.103;
(18) protected health information under HIPAA;
(19)
a third-party administrator, as that term is defined in the Third
Party Administrator Rule adopted pursuant to 18 V.S.A. § 9417, provided that
the third-party administrator is subject to and in compliance with the
Department of Financial Regulation’s Regulation IH-2001-01 (Privacy of
Consumer Financial and Health Information);
(20)
personal data of a victim or witness of child abuse, domestic
violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, violent felony, or stalking that a
victim services organization collects, processes, or maintains in the course of
its operation;
(21) a nonprofit organization that is established to detect and prevent
fraudulent acts in connection with insurance;
(22)
information that is processed for purposes of compliance,
enrollment or degree verification, or research services by a nonprofit
organization that is established to provide enrollment data reporting services
on behalf of postsecondary schools as that term is defined in 16 V.S.A. § 176;
(23) noncommercial activity of:


--- Page 85 ---
- 4636 -
(A)
a publisher, editor, reporter, or other person who is connected
with or employed by a newspaper, magazine, periodical, newsletter, pamphlet,
report, or other publication in general circulation;
(B)
a radio or television station that holds a license issued by the
Federal Communications Commission;
(C) a nonprofit organization that provides programming to radio or
television networks; or
(D) a press association or wire service; or
(24) data processed or maintained:
(A) in the course of an individual applying to, employed by, or acting
as an agent or independent contractor of a controller, processor, consumer
health data controller, or third party, to the extent that the data is collected and
used within the context of that role;
(B) as the emergency contact information of a consumer pursuant to
this subchapter, used for emergency contact purposes; or
(C) that is necessary to retain to administer benefits for another
individual relating to the individual who is the subject of the information
pursuant to subdivision (18) of this subsection (a) and used for the purposes of
administering such benefits.
(b)
Controllers, processors, and consumer health data controllers that
comply with the verifiable parental consent requirements of COPPA shall be
deemed compliant with any obligation to obtain parental consent pursuant to
this subchapter.
§ 2415d. CONSUMER PERSONAL DATA RIGHTS
(a) Consumer rights. A consumer shall have the right to:
(1)
confirm whether or not a controller is processing the consumer’s
personal data and access such personal data, including any inferences about the
consumer derived from such personal data and whether a controller or
processor is processing a consumer’s personal data for the purposes of
profiling to make a decision that produces any legal or similarly significant
effect concerning a consumer, unless such confirmation or access would
require the controller to reveal a trade secret or the controller is prohibited
from disclosing such personal data under subsection (e) of this section;


--- Page 86 ---
- 4637 -
(2)
correct inaccuracies in the consumer’s personal data, taking into
account the nature of the personal data and the purposes of the processing of
the consumer’s personal data;
(3) delete personal data provided by, or obtained about, the consumer;
(4)
obtain a copy of the consumer’s personal data processed by the
controller, in a portable and, to the extent technically feasible, readily usable
format that allows the consumer to transmit the data to another controller
without hindrance, where the processing is carried out by automated means,
provided the controller shall not be required to reveal any trade secret;
(5) opt out of the processing of the personal data for purposes of:
(A) targeted advertising;
(B)
the sale of personal data, except as provided in subsection
2415e(b) of this subchapter; or
(C) profiling in furtherance of any automated decision that produces
any legal or similarly significant effect concerning the consumer;
(6) if the consumer’s personal data were processed for the purposes of
profiling in furtherance of any automated decision that produced any legal or
similarly significant effect concerning the consumer, and if feasible:
(A) question the result of such profiling;
(B)
be informed of the reason that such profiling resulted in such
decision;
(C) review the consumer’s personal data that were processed for the
purposes of such profiling; and
(D) if the profiling decision concerned housing, taking into account
the nature of the personal data and the purposes for which such personal data
were processed, be allowed to correct any incorrect personal data that were
processed for the purposes of such profiling and have the profiling decision
reevaluated based on the corrected personal data; and
(7) obtain from the controller a list of the third parties to which such
controller has sold the consumer’s personal data or, if such controller does not
maintain a list of the third parties to which such controller has sold the
consumer’s personal data, a list of all third parties to which such controller has
sold personal data, provided the controller shall not be required to reveal any
trade secret.
(b) Exercising consumer rights.


--- Page 87 ---
- 4638 -
(1) A consumer may exercise rights under this section by a secure and
reliable means established by the controller and described to the consumer in
the controller’s privacy notice pursuant to subsection 2415e(c) of this
subchapter.
(2)(A)
A consumer may designate another person to serve as the
consumer’s authorized agent, and act on the consumer’s behalf, to opt out of
the processing of the consumer’s personal data for the purposes specified in
subsection (a) of this section.
(B)
The consumer may designate an authorized agent by way of,
among other things, a technology, including an internet link or a browser
setting, browser extension, or global device setting, indicating the consumer’s
intent to opt out of the processing.
(C) A controller shall comply with an opt-out request received from
an authorized agent if the controller is able to verify, with commercially
reasonable effort, the identity of the consumer and the authorized agent’s
authority to act on the consumer’s behalf.
(3) In the case of processing personal data of a consumer who:
(A) a controller has actual knowledge, or willfully disregards, is a
child, the parent or legal guardian may exercise the consumer rights on the
child’s behalf; and
(B) is subject to a guardianship, conservatorship, or other protective
arrangement, the guardian or the conservator of the consumer may exercise the
rights on the consumer’s behalf.
(c)
Controller compliance.
Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, a controller shall comply with a request by a consumer to exercise
the consumer rights authorized pursuant to this subchapter as follows:
(1) Timeline to respond. A controller:
(A) shall respond to the consumer without undue delay, but not later
than 45 days after receipt of the request; and
(B)
may extend the response period by 45 additional days when
reasonably necessary,
considering the
complexity
and number
of
the
consumer’s requests, provided the controller informs the consumer of the
extension within the initial 45-day response period and of the reason for the
extension.
(2)
Declining to take action.
If a controller declines to take action
regarding the consumer’s request, the controller shall inform the consumer
without undue delay, but not later than 45 days after receipt of the request, of


--- Page 88 ---
- 4639 -
the justification for declining to take action and instructions for how to appeal
the decision.
(3) Cost of information.
(A) Information provided by a controller in response to a consumer
request shall be provided by the controller, free of charge, once per consumer
during any 12-month period.
(B) If requests from a consumer are manifestly unfounded, excessive,
or repetitive, the controller may charge the consumer a reasonable fee to cover
the administrative costs of complying with the request or decline to act on the
request.
(C) The controller bears the burden of demonstrating the manifestly
unfounded, excessive, or repetitive nature of the request.
(4) Authentication of request.
(A) If a controller is unable to authenticate a request to exercise any
of the rights afforded under subdivisions (a)(1)–(4) of this section using
commercially reasonable efforts, the controller shall not be required to comply
with a request to initiate an action pursuant to this section and shall provide
notice to the consumer that the controller is unable to authenticate the request
to exercise the right or rights until the consumer provides additional
information reasonably necessary to authenticate the consumer and the
consumer’s request to exercise the right or rights.
(B)
A controller shall not be required to authenticate an opt-out
request, but a controller may deny an opt-out request if the controller has a
good faith, reasonable, and documented belief that the request is fraudulent.
(C) If a controller denies an opt-out request because the controller
believes the request is fraudulent, the controller shall send a notice to the
person who made the request disclosing that the controller believes the request
is fraudulent, why the controller believes the request is fraudulent, and that the
controller shall not comply with the request.
(5) Third-party data. A controller that has obtained personal data about
a consumer from a source other than the consumer shall be deemed in
compliance with a consumer’s request to delete the consumer’s data pursuant
to subdivision (a)(3) of this section by:
(A) retaining a record of the deletion request and the minimum data
necessary for the purpose of ensuring the consumer’s personal data remains
deleted from the controller’s records and not using the retained data for any
other purpose pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; or


--- Page 89 ---
- 4640 -
(B) opting the consumer out of the processing of the personal data
for any purpose except for those exempted pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(d) Appeals.
(1) A controller shall establish a process for a consumer to appeal the
controller’s refusal to take action on a request pursuant to this section within a
reasonable period of time after the consumer’s receipt of the decision.
(2) The appeal process shall be conspicuously available and similar to
the process for submitting requests to initiate action pursuant to this section.
(3) Not later than 60 days after receipt of an appeal, a controller shall
inform the consumer in writing of any action taken or not taken in response to
the appeal, including a written explanation of the reasons for the decisions.
(4) If the controller denies the appeal, the controller shall also provide
the consumer with an online mechanism, if available, or other method through
which the consumer may contact the Attorney General to submit a complaint.
(e) Disclosure of certain information. A controller shall not disclose the
following personal data in response to a request to exercise the consumer’s
rights pursuant to subdivision (a)(1) of this section and shall instead inform the
consumer or the person exercising such right on behalf of the consumer, with
sufficient particularity, that the controller has collected the consumer’s:
(1) Social Security number;
(2) driver’s license number, State identification card number, or other
government-issued identification number;
(3) financial account number;
(4)
health insurance identification number or medical identification
number;
(5) account password;
(6) security question or answer thereto; or
(7) biometric data.
§ 2415e. DUTIES OF CONTROLLERS
(a) Data collection and processing. A controller shall:
(1)
limit the collection of a consumer’s personal data to what is
reasonably necessary and proportionate in relation to the purposes for which
the data are processed, as disclosed to the consumer;


--- Page 90 ---
- 4641 -
(2) not process a consumer’s personal data for any material new purpose
that is neither reasonably necessary to, nor compatible with, the purposes for
which the data were processed pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection,
unless the controller receives consent from the consumer;
(3)
establish, implement, and maintain reasonable administrative,
technical, and physical data security practices to protect the confidentiality,
integrity, and accessibility of personal data appropriate to the volume and
nature of the personal data at issue;
(4) regarding the sensitive data of a consumer:
(A) not process the sensitive data unless the consumer has provided
consent and unless the processing is reasonably necessary in relation to the
purposes for which the sensitive data are collected;
(B)
not sell the sensitive data unless the consumer has provided
consent; and
(C)
if the controller has actual knowledge, or willfully disregards,
that the consumer is a child, process the sensitive data in accordance with:
(i) COPPA; and
(ii) if applicable, section 2449f of this title;
(5) not process personal data in violation of any:
(A) law of this State that prohibits unlawful discrimination against
consumers and any evidence, or lack of evidence, concerning proactive
antibias testing or any similar proactive effort to avoid processing data in
violation of any such law, including any evidence or lack of evidence
concerning the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of any testing or effort, the
results of which shall be relevant to any claim available for a violation of such
law and any defense available thereto; or
(B)
federal law that prohibits unlawful discrimination against
consumers;
(6)
provide an effective mechanism for a consumer to revoke the
consumer’s consent under this section that is at least as easy as the mechanism
by which the consumer provided the consumer’s consent and, upon revocation
of the consent, cease to process the data as soon as practicable, but not later
than 15 days after the receipt of the request;
(7) subject to subdivision (9) of this subsection, if a controller has actual
knowledge, and willfully disregards, that a consumer is at least 13 years of age
but younger than 18 years of age:


--- Page 91 ---
- 4642 -
(A) not process the personal data of the consumer for purposes of
targeted advertising; and
(B) not sell the consumer’s personal data;
(8)
not discriminate against a consumer for exercising any of the
consumer rights contained in this subchapter, including denying goods or
services, charging different prices or rates for goods or services, or providing a
different level of quality of goods or services to the consumer; and
(9) if the controller is a covered business and the consumer is a covered
minor as both terms are defined in section 2449a of this title, comply with the
requirements set forth in chapter 62, subchapter 6 of this title (Vermont Age-
Appropriate Design Code Act).
(b) Limitations. Subsection (a) of this section shall not be construed to:
(1) require a controller to provide a product or service that requires the
personal data of a consumer that the controller does not collect or maintain; or
(2)
prohibit a controller from offering a different price, rate, level,
quality, or selection of goods or services to a consumer, including offering
goods or services for no fee if the offering is in connection with a consumer’s
voluntary participation in a bona fide loyalty, rewards, premium features,
discounts, or club card program.
(c) Privacy notice.
(1) A controller shall provide consumers with a reasonably accessible,
clear, and meaningful privacy notice that includes:
(A) the categories of personal data processed by the controller;
(B) the purpose for processing personal data and a description of the
processing, pursuant to subdivision (a)(1) of this section;
(C) a description of the means, established pursuant to subsection (d)
of this section, for consumers to submit requests to exercise their consumer
rights pursuant to this subchapter, including a description of how consumers
may:
(i) exercise a consumer’s rights under subsection 2415d(a) of this
subchapter; and
(ii)
appeal a controller’s decisions with regard to requests to
exercise such rights;
(D) the categories of personal data that the controller sells to third
parties, if any;


--- Page 92 ---
- 4643 -
(E) the categories of third parties, if any, to which the controller sells
personal data;
(F) a clear and conspicuous disclosure of any:
(i)
processing of personal
data for purposes of
targeted
advertising; or
(ii) sale of personal data to a third party for purposes of targeted
advertising;
(G)
an active email address or other online mechanism that the
consumer may use to contact the controller;
(H)
a statement disclosing whether the controller collects, uses, or
sells personal data for the purpose of training large language models; and
(I)
the most recent month and year during which the controller
updated the privacy notice.
(2)
A controller shall make the privacy notice required under
subdivision (1) of this subsection publicly available:
(A)
through a conspicuous hyperlink that includes the word
“privacy”:
(i) on the home page of the controller’s website, if the controller
maintains a website;
(ii) on the application store page or download page of a mobile
device, if the controller maintains an application for use on a mobile device;
and
(iii)
on the application’s settings menu or in a similarly
conspicuous and accessible location, if the controller maintains an application
for use on a mobile device or other device used to connect to the internet;
(B) through a medium in which the controller regularly interacts with
consumers, including mail, if the controller does not maintain a website;
(C) in each language in which the controller:
(i) provides any product or service that is subject to the privacy
notice; or
(ii) carries out any activity that is related to any product or service
described in subdivision (i) of this subdivision (C); and
(D)
in a manner that is reasonably accessible to, and usable by,
individuals with disabilities.


--- Page 93 ---
- 4644 -
(3) Whenever a controller makes any retroactive material change to the
controller’s privacy notice or practices, the controller shall:
(A)
notify the consumers affected by such material change with
respect to any personal data to be collected after the effective date of such
material change;
(B) provide a reasonable opportunity for the consumers described in
subdivision (A) of this subdivision (3) to withdraw consent to any further and
materially different collection, processing, or transfer of previously collected
personal data following such material change; and
(C) take all reasonable electronic measures to provide the notice set
forth in this subdivision (3) to the affected consumers, taking into account the
technology available to the controller and the nature of the controller’s
relationship with such affected consumers.
(4) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require a controller
to provide a privacy notice that is specific to this State if the controller
provides a generally applicable privacy notice that satisfies the requirements
established in this subsection.
(d) Providing consumers access to exercise rights.
(1) A controller shall:
(A) establish and describe in a privacy notice, one or more secure
and reliable means for consumers to submit a request to exercise their
consumer rights pursuant to this subchapter; and
(B)
not require a consumer to create a new account in order to
exercise consumer rights but may require a consumer to use an existing
account.
(2) The means pursuant to subdivision (1) of this subsection shall:
(A) take into account the ways in which consumers normally interact
with the controller, the need for secure and reliable communication of the
requests, and the ability of the controller to verify the identity of the consumer
making the request;
(B) provide a clear and conspicuous link on the controller’s website
to a web page that enables a consumer, or an agent of the consumer, to opt out
of the processing of the consumer’s personal data for purposes of targeted
advertising or any sale of the consumer’s personal data; and
(C) allow a consumer to opt out of any processing of the consumer’s
personal data for the purposes of targeted advertising, or any sale of the


--- Page 94 ---
- 4645 -
personal data, through an opt-out preference signal sent to the controller with
the consumer’s consent indicating the consumer’s intent to opt out of any of
the processing or sale, by a platform, technology, or other mechanism that
shall:
(i) not unfairly disadvantage another controller;
(ii)
not make use of a default setting, but rather require the
consumer to make an affirmative, freely given, and unambiguous choice to opt
out of any processing of the consumer’s personal data pursuant to this
subchapter;
(iii)
be consumer friendly and easy to use by the average
consumer;
(iv) be as consistent as possible with any other similar platform,
technology, or mechanism required by any federal or State law or regulation;
and
(v)
enable the controller to accurately determine whether the
consumer is a resident of this State and whether the consumer has made a
legitimate request to opt out of any sale of the consumer’s personal data or
targeted advertising.
(3)
If a consumer’s decision to opt out of any processing of the
consumer’s personal data for the purposes of targeted advertising, or any sale
of the personal data, through an opt-out preference signal sent in accordance
with the provisions of subdivision (2)(C) of this subsection conflicts with the
consumer’s
existing
controller-specific
privacy
setting
or
voluntary
participation in a controller’s bona fide loyalty, rewards, premium features,
discounts, or club card program, the controller shall comply with the
consumer’s opt-out preference signal but may notify the consumer of the
conflict and provide to the consumer the choice to confirm the controller-
specific privacy setting or participation in the program.
(4)
If a controller responds to a consumer opt-out request received
pursuant to subdivision (2)(C) of this subsection by informing the consumer of
a charge for the use of any product or service, the controller shall present the
terms of any financial incentive offered pursuant to subdivision (b)(2) of this
section for the retention, use, sale, or sharing of the consumer’s personal data.
§ 2415f. PROCESSORS’ DUTIES; CONTRACTS BETWEEN
CONTROLLERS AND PROCESSORS
(a) Generally. A processor shall adhere to the instructions of a controller
and shall assist the controller in meeting the controller’s obligations under this
subchapter, including:


--- Page 95 ---
- 4646 -
(1)
taking into account the nature of processing and to the extent
possible, to fulfill the controller’s obligation to respond to consumer rights
requests pursuant to subsection 2415d(a) of this subchapter;
(2)
taking into account the nature of processing and the information
available to the processor, by assisting the controller in meeting the
controller’s obligations in relation to the security of processing the personal
data and in relation to the notification of a data broker security breach or
security breach, as defined in section 2430 of this title, of the system of the
processor, in order to meet the controller’s obligations; and
(3) providing necessary information to enable the controller to conduct
and document data protection and impact assessments.
(b) Contractual terms.
(1)
A contract between a controller and a processor shall govern the
processor’s data processing procedures with respect to processing performed
on behalf of the controller.
(2) The contract shall be binding and clearly set forth instructions for
processing data, the nature and purpose of processing, the type of data subject
to processing, the duration of processing, and the rights and obligations of both
parties.
(3) The contract shall require that the processor:
(A) ensure that each person processing personal data is subject to a
duty of confidentiality with respect to the data;
(B) at the controller’s direction, delete or return all personal data to
the controller as requested at the end of the provision of services, unless
retention of the personal data is required by law;
(C) upon the reasonable request of the controller, make available to
the controller all information in its possession necessary to demonstrate the
processor’s compliance with the obligations in this subchapter;
(D)
after providing the controller an opportunity to object, engage
any subcontractor pursuant to a written contract that requires the subcontractor
to meet the obligations of the processor with respect to the personal data; and
(E) make available to the controller upon the reasonable request of
the controller all information in the processor’s possession necessary to
demonstrate the processor’s compliance with this subchapter.
(4) A processor shall provide a report of an assessment to the controller
upon request.


--- Page 96 ---
- 4647 -
(c) Liabilities. This section shall not be construed to relieve a controller or
processor from the liabilities imposed on the controller or processor by virtue
of the controller’s or processor’s role in the processing relationship, as
described in this subchapter.
(d) Processors performing as controllers.
(1) Determining whether a person is acting as a controller or processor
with respect to a specific processing of data is a fact-based determination that
depends upon the context in which personal data are to be processed.
(2) A person who is not limited in the person’s processing of personal
data pursuant to a controller’s instructions, or who fails to adhere to the
instructions, is a controller and not a processor with respect to a specific
processing of data.
(3)
A processor that continues to adhere to a controller’s instructions
with respect to a specific processing of personal data remains a processor.
(4) If a processor begins, alone or jointly with others, determining the
purposes and means of the processing of personal data, the processor is a
controller with respect to the processing and may be subject to an enforcement
action under section 2415j of this subchapter.
§ 2415g. DATA PROTECTION AND IMPACT ASSESSMENTS;
DISCLOSURE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL
(a) Generally. A controller shall conduct and document a data protection
assessment for each of the controller’s processing activities that presents a
heightened risk of harm to a consumer, which for the purposes of this section
includes:
(1)
the processing of personal data for the purposes of targeted
advertising;
(2) the sale of personal data;
(3) the processing of personal data for the purposes of profiling, if the
profiling presents a reasonably foreseeable risk of:
(A) unfair or deceptive treatment of, or unlawful disparate impact on,
a consumer;
(B) financial, physical, or reputational injury to a consumer;
(C) a physical or other intrusion upon the solitude or seclusion, or the
private affairs or concerns, of a consumer, if the intrusion would be offensive
to a reasonable person; or


--- Page 97 ---
- 4648 -
(D) other substantial injury to a consumer; and
(4) the processing of sensitive data.
(b) Requirements.
(1) Data protection assessments conducted pursuant to subsection (a) of
this section shall identify and weigh the benefits that may flow, directly and
indirectly, from the processing to the controller, the consumer, other
stakeholders, and the public against the potential risks to the rights of the
consumer associated with the processing, as mitigated by safeguards that can
be employed by the controller to reduce the risks.
(2) The controller shall factor into each data protection assessment the
use of deidentified data and the reasonable expectations of consumers, as well
as the context of the processing and the relationship between the controller and
the consumer whose personal data will be processed.
(c) Impact assessments for profiling. Each controller that engages in any
profiling for the purposes of making a decision that produces any legal or
similarly significant effect concerning a consumer shall conduct an impact
assessment for the profiling.
The impact assessment shall include, to the
extent reasonably known by or available to the controller, as applicable:
(1)
a statement by the controller disclosing the purpose, intended use
cases, and deployment context of, and benefits afforded by, the profiling;
(2) an analysis of whether the profiling poses any known or reasonably
foreseeable heightened risk of harm to a consumer, and, if so:
(A) the nature of such heightened risk of harm to a consumer; and
(B) the steps that have been taken to mitigate such heightened risk of
harm to a consumer;
(3) a description of:
(A) the main categories of personal data processed as inputs for the
purposes of such profiling; and
(B) the outputs such profiling produces;
(4) an overview of the main categories of personal data the controller
used to customize the profiling, if the controller used data to customize the
profiling;
(5) any metrics used to evaluate the performance and known limitations
of the profiling;


--- Page 98 ---
- 4649 -
(6)
a description of any transparency measures taken concerning the
profiling, including any measures taken to disclose to consumers that the
controller is engaged in profiling while the controller is engaged in the
profiling; and
(7) a description of the postdeployment monitoring and user safeguards
provided concerning such profiling, including the oversight, use, and learning
processes established by the controller to address issues arising from such
profiling.
(d) Disclosure to Attorney General.
(1) The Attorney General may require that a controller disclose any data
protection or impact assessment that is relevant to an investigation conducted
by the Attorney General, and the controller shall make the data protection or
impact assessment available to the Attorney General.
(2)
The Attorney General may evaluate the data protection or impact
assessment for compliance with the responsibilities set forth in this subchapter.
(3)
Data protection and impact assessments shall be confidential and
shall be exempt from disclosure and copying under the Public Records Act.
(4)
To the extent any information contained in a data protection or
impact assessment disclosed to the Attorney General includes information
subject to attorney-client privilege or work product protection, the disclosure
shall not constitute a waiver of the privilege or protection.
(e) Assessment efficiency and applicability.
(1)
A single data protection or impact assessment may address a
comparable set of processing operations that include similar activities.
(2) If a controller conducts a data protection or impact assessment for
the purpose of complying with another applicable law or regulation, the data
protection or impact assessment shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements
established in this section if the data protection or impact assessment is
reasonably similar in scope and effect to the data or impact protection
assessment that would otherwise be conducted pursuant to this section.
(3) Data protection and impact assessment requirements shall apply to
processing activities created or generated after January 1, 2028, and are not
retroactive.
§ 2415h. DEIDENTIFIED DATA
(a) Requirements. A controller in possession of deidentified data shall:


--- Page 99 ---
- 4650 -
(1) take reasonable measures to ensure that the data cannot be associated
with an individual;
(2) publicly commit to maintaining and using deidentified data without
attempting to reidentify the data; and
(3)
contractually obligate any recipients of the deidentified data to
comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(b) Limitations. This subchapter shall not be construed to:
(1)
require a controller or processor to reidentify deidentified data or
pseudonymous data;
(2)
maintain data in identifiable form, or collect, obtain, retain, or
access any data or technology, in order to be capable of associating an
authenticated consumer request with personal data; or
(3)
require a controller or processor to comply with an authenticated
consumer rights request if the controller:
(A)
is not reasonably capable of associating the request with the
personal data or it would be unreasonably burdensome for the controller to
associate the request with the personal data;
(B)
does not use the personal data to recognize or respond to the
specific consumer who is the subject of the personal data, or associate the
personal data with other personal data about the same specific consumer; and
(C)
does not sell the personal data to any third party or otherwise
voluntarily disclose the personal data to any third party other than a processor,
except as otherwise permitted in this section.
(c)
Pseudonymous data.
The rights afforded under
subdivisions
2415d(a)(1)–(4) of this subchapter shall not apply to pseudonymous data in
cases in which the controller is able to demonstrate that any information
necessary to identify the consumer is kept separately and is subject to effective
technical and organizational controls that prevent the controller from accessing
the information.
(d) Oversight when disclosing. A controller that discloses pseudonymous
data or deidentified data shall exercise reasonable oversight to monitor
compliance with any contractual commitments to which the pseudonymous
data or deidentified data is subject and shall take appropriate steps to address
any breaches of those contractual commitments.


--- Page 100 ---
- 4651 -
§ 2415i. CONSTRUCTION OF DUTIES
(a)
Generally.
This subchapter shall not be construed to restrict a
controller’s, processor’s, or consumer health data controller’s ability to:
(1)
comply with federal, state, or municipal laws, ordinances, or
regulations, except as prohibited by 1 V.S.A. § 150;
(2) comply with a civil, criminal, or regulatory inquiry, investigation,
subpoena, or summons by federal, state, municipal, or other governmental
authorities;
(3)
cooperate with law enforcement agencies concerning conduct or
activity that the controller, processor, or consumer health data controller
reasonably and in good faith believes may violate federal, state, or municipal
laws, ordinances, or regulations;
(4) investigate, establish, exercise, prepare for, or defend legal claims;
(5) provide a product or service specifically requested by a consumer;
(6) perform under a contract to which a consumer is a party, including
fulfilling the terms of a written warranty;
(7)
take steps at the request of a consumer prior to entering into a
contract;
(8) take immediate steps to protect an interest that is essential for the
life or physical safety of the consumer or another individual, and if the
processing cannot be manifestly based on another legal basis;
(9)
prevent, detect, protect against, or respond to security incidents,
identity theft, fraud, harassment, malicious or deceptive activities, or any
illegal activity; preserve the integrity or security of systems; or investigate,
report, or prosecute those responsible for the action;
(10) engage in public or peer-reviewed scientific or statistical research
in the public interest that adheres to all other applicable ethics and privacy
laws and is approved, monitored, and governed by an institutional review
board that determines, or similar independent oversight entities that determine:
(A)
whether the deletion of the information is likely to provide
substantial benefits that do not exclusively accrue to the controller;
(B) the expected benefits of the research outweigh the privacy risks;
and


--- Page 101 ---
- 4652 -
(C)
whether the controller or consumer health data controller has
implemented reasonable safeguards to mitigate privacy risks associated with
research, including any risks associated with reidentification;
(11) assist another controller, processor, consumer health data controller,
or third party with any of the obligations under this subchapter; or
(12) process personal data for reasons of public interest in the area of
public health, community health, or population health, but solely to the extent
that the processing is:
(A) subject to suitable and specific measures to safeguard the rights
of the consumer whose personal data are being processed; and
(B)
under
the
responsibility
of
a
professional
subject
to
confidentiality obligations under federal, state, or local law.
(b)
Internal use of data.
The obligations imposed on controllers,
processors, or consumer health data controllers under this subchapter shall not
restrict a controller’s, processor’s, or consumer health data controller’s ability
to collect, use, or retain data for internal use to:
(1)
conduct internal research to develop, improve, or repair products,
services, or technology;
(2) effectuate a product recall;
(3) identify and repair technical errors that impair existing or intended
functionality;
(4) process personal data for the purposes of profiling in furtherance of
any automated decision that may produce any legal or similarly significant
effect concerning a consumer, provided the personal data are:
(A) processed only to the extent necessary to detect or correct any
bias that may result from processing the data for such purposes, the bias cannot
effectively be detected or corrected without processing the data, and the data
are deleted once the processing has been completed;
(B) processed subject to appropriate safeguards to protect the rights
of consumers secured by the Constitution or laws of this State or of the United
States;
(C) subject to technical restrictions concerning the reuse of the data
and
industry-standard
security
and
privacy
measures,
including
pseudonymization;
(D) subject to measures to ensure that the data are secure, protected,
and subject to suitable safeguards, including strict controls concerning, and


--- Page 102 ---
- 4653 -
documentation of, access to the data, to avoid misuse and ensure that only
authorized persons may access the data while preserving the confidentiality of
the data; and
(E) not transmitted, transferred, or otherwise accessed by any third
party;
(5)
perform internal operations that are reasonably aligned with the
expectations of the consumer or reasonably anticipated based on the
consumer’s existing relationship with the controller or consumer health data
controller, or are otherwise compatible with processing data in furtherance of
the provision of a product or service specifically requested by a consumer or
the performance of a contract to which the consumer is a party; or
(6)
perform internal operations in accordance with the internal
operations exception established in COPPA if the controller, processor, or
consumer health data controller is processing data in accordance with the
exception.
(c) Evidentiary privilege.
(1)
The obligations imposed on controllers, processors, or consumer
health data controllers under this subchapter shall not apply if compliance by
the controller, processor, or consumer health data controller with this
subchapter would violate an evidentiary privilege under the laws of this State.
(2)
This subchapter shall not be construed to prevent a controller,
processor, or consumer health data controller from providing personal data
concerning a consumer to a person covered by an evidentiary privilege under
the laws of this State as part of a privileged communication.
(3)
Nothing in this subchapter modifies 2020 Acts and Resolves No.
166, Sec. 14 or authorizes the use of facial recognition technology by law
enforcement.
(d) Third parties.
(1)
A controller, processor, or consumer health data controller that
discloses personal data to a processor or third-party controller pursuant to this
subchapter shall not be deemed to have violated this subchapter if the
processor or third-party controller that receives and processes the personal data
violates this subchapter, provided, at the time the disclosing controller,
processor, or consumer health data controller disclosed the personal data, the
disclosing controller, processor, or consumer health data controller did not
have actual knowledge that the receiving processor or third-party controller
would violate this subchapter.


--- Page 103 ---
- 4654 -
(2) A third-party controller or processor receiving personal data from a
controller, processor, or consumer health data controller in compliance with
this subchapter is not in violation of this subchapter for the transgressions of
the controller, processor, or consumer health data controller from which the
third-party controller or processor receives the personal data.
(e) Clarifications. This subchapter shall not be construed to:
(1)
impose any obligation on a controller or processor that adversely
affects the rights or freedoms of any person, including the rights of any person:
(A) to freedom of speech or freedom of the press guaranteed in the
First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution; or
(B) under 12 V.S.A. § 1615;
(2) apply to any person’s processing of personal data in the course of
the person’s purely personal or household activities; or
(3) require an independent school as defined in 16 V.S.A. § 11(a)(8) or a
private institution of higher education, as defined in 20 U.S.C. § 1001 et seq.,
to delete personal data or opt out of processing of personal data that would
unreasonably interfere with the provision of education services by or the
ordinary operation of the school or institution.
(f) Personal data processing.
(1)
Personal data processed by a controller or consumer health data
controller pursuant to this section may be processed to the extent that the
processing is:
(A) reasonably necessary and proportionate to the purposes listed in
this section; and
(B) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to
the specific purposes listed in this section.
(2)(A)
The collection, use, or retention of personal data pursuant to
subsection (b) of this section shall, where applicable, take into account the
nature and purpose or purposes of the collection, use, or retention.
(B) The data shall be subject to reasonable administrative, technical,
and physical measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and accessibility
of the personal data and to reduce reasonably foreseeable risks of harm to
consumers relating to the collection, use, or retention of personal data.
(3) If a controller or consumer health data controller processes personal
data pursuant to an exemption in this section, the controller or consumer health


--- Page 104 ---
- 4655 -
data controller bears the burden of demonstrating that the processing qualifies
for the exemption and complies with the requirements of this subsection.
(4) Processing personal data for the purposes expressly identified in this
section shall not solely make a legal entity a controller or consumer health data
controller with respect to the processing.
§ 2415j. ATTORNEY GENERAL ENFORCEMENT; REPORTING
(a)
Consumer Protection Act.
A violation of this subchapter shall be
deemed a violation of the Vermont Consumer Protection Act, pursuant to
chapter 63 of this title.
The Attorney General has the same authority to
enforce this subchapter as provided under 9 V.S.A. chapter 63, subchapter 1.
This subchapter shall not be construed as providing the basis for, or be subject
to, a private right of action for violations of this subchapter or any other law.
(b) Reporting. Annually, on or before December 1, the Attorney General
shall submit a report to the General Assembly disclosing:
(1) the number of notices of violation pursuant to this subchapter that
the Attorney General has issued;
(2) the nature of each violation;
(3) the number of violations that resulted in an enforcement action being
taken;
(4) the number of enforcement actions that proceeded to trial;
(5)
whether and to what extent the Attorney General has offered an
opportunity for a controller or processor to cure a violation; and
(6)
any other matter the Attorney General deems relevant for the
purposes of the report.
(c)
Guidance.
The Attorney General shall provide, and update as
necessary, guidance to controllers and processors for compliance with the
terms of the Vermont Data Privacy and Online Surveillance Act.
§ 2415k. CONSUMER HEALTH DATA PRIVACY
A person shall not:
(1) provide any employee or contractor with access to consumer health
data unless the employee or contractor is subject to a contractual or statutory
duty of confidentiality;
(2) provide any processor with access to consumer health data unless the
person and processor comply with section 2415f of this subchapter;


--- Page 105 ---
- 4656 -
(3) use a geofence to establish a virtual boundary that is within 1,850
feet of any health care facility, including any mental health facility or
reproductive or sexual health facility, for the purpose of identifying, tracking,
collecting data from, or sending any notification to a consumer regarding the
consumer’s consumer health data; or
(4) sell, or offer to sell, consumer health data without first obtaining the
consumer’s consent.
Sec. 2. DATA PRIVACY; INTENT; ENFORCEMENT; EDUCATION
(a) Enforcement intent. Through this act, the General Assembly makes the
decision to not provide consumers with a right to hold persons accountable in
civil court for violations of the Vermont Data Privacy and Online Surveillance
Act. Consequently, the Office of the Attorney General will bear the burden of
enforcing the Act and ensuring, to the best of its abilities, that the rights of
Vermonters will be protected. In prohibiting a private right of action, it is the
intent of the General Assembly that additional appropriations and resources
will be provided in the following years to support the Office of the Attorney
General’s enforcement of this Act, which may require the creation of a data
privacy unit. If such appropriations or resources are not provided, the General
Assembly may consider adding a private right of action for consumers.
(b) Educational intent. It is also the intent of the General Assembly that
appropriate educational resources and sufficient technical support will be
provided by the State in the following years to help Vermont businesses
comply with the Act.
Sec. 3. DATA PRIVACY; ENFORCEMENT; CURE PERIOD
During the period beginning January 1, 2028, and ending on June 30, 2029,
the Attorney General shall, prior to initiating any action for a violation of the
Vermont Data Privacy and Online Surveillance Act, issue a notice of violation
to the alleged violator if the Attorney General determines that a cure is
possible. If the person fails to cure the violation within 60 days after receipt of
the notice of violation, the Attorney General may bring an action pursuant to
9 V.S.A. § 2415j(a).
Sec. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on January 1, 2028.


--- Page 106 ---
- 4657 -
S. 193.
An act relating to establishing a forensic facility for certain criminal justice-
involved persons.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. LEGISLATIVE INTENT
It is the intent of the General Assembly that the Secretary of Human
Services shall establish and operate a locked secure forensic facility by July 1,
2029 for the competency restoration, evaluation, stabilization, treatment, and
care of persons who have been found not competent to stand trial or not guilty
by reason of insanity for serious criminal offenses.
The Department of
Corrections shall not operate or staff the forensic facility, with the exception
that employees of the Department of Corrections may provide security services
for the facility at the admitting area of and around the outside perimeter of a
forensic facility if it is co-located on the grounds of a correctional facility.
Sec. 2. 13 V.S.A. § 4815a is added to read:
§ 4815a. COMPETENCY RESTORATION SERVICES WITHIN
FORENSIC FACILITY
(a) A person shall be placed at the forensic facility established in section
4826 of this title if the person:
(1) has been charged with an offense punishable by a life sentence;
(2)(A) has been held without bail pursuant to section 7553 of this title;
or
(B) if the person is not held without bail pursuant to section 7553 of
this title, has a qualifying condition and it has been determined that the
person’s release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person;
(3) is not currently:
(A) receiving treatment through an order of hospitalization pursuant
to 18 V.S.A. § 7619 or section 4822 of this title; or
(B)
subject to an order of commitment to the Commissioner of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living issued under 18 V.S.A. § 8845 or
section 4823 of this title, unless the person is detained in a correctional facility
pending trial; and
(4) has been found not competent to stand trial.


--- Page 107 ---
- 4658 -
(b)(1)
The forensic facility shall cause the person to be evaluated for
competency to stand trial:
(A) six months from the date of admission, and thereafter every
six months from the issuance of an order for continued competency restoration
treatment under subdivision (3)(B) of this subsection (b); and
(B) at any time upon the determination by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director that the person is likely competent to stand trial or
that it is unlikely that the person’s competency can be restored.
(2) The court shall hold a hearing after the competency evaluation, and
prior to the hearing, the results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court
and the parties to the underlying criminal action.
(3)(A) If the court finds after the hearing that the person is competent to
stand trial, the court shall immediately notify the State’s Attorney and the
person’s counsel in the criminal case.
(B)
If the court finds after the hearing that the person is not
competent to stand trial, the court shall order continued competency
restoration treatment at the facility pursuant to this section.
(4)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or rule, witnesses at
hearings held pursuant to this section shall be permitted to provide testimony
remotely.
(c)(1) At the request of a party or the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, the court may order that a competency evaluation conducted pursuant
to subsection (b) of this section include an opinion on whether the person’s
competency can be restored. If a request is made pursuant to this subsection,
the forensic facility shall cause the person to be evaluated for restorability to
competence prior to the hearing.
(2) If the court finds that the person’s competency can be restored, the
court shall order continued competency restoration treatment at the facility
pursuant to this section.
(3)(A)
If the court finds that the person’s competency cannot be
restored, the court shall hold a hearing within 60 days unless that period is
extended by the court for good cause.
(B)
Prior to the date of the hearing, the court shall order that a
forensic risk assessment of the person be conducted by an evaluator
appropriately qualified for the qualifying condition of the person that includes:
(i) the person’s history and present dangerousness;


--- Page 108 ---
- 4659 -
(ii) a description of any tests that were employed and the results
of the tests;
(iii) the examiner’s findings;
(iv)
the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person’s release
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person;
(v)
recommendations
for
evidence-based
treatment
and
supervision, including in a community-based placement, that would support
the person’s success and mitigate risk of aggression and violence;
(vi) the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person is a person in
need of custody, care, and habilitation as defined in 18 V.S.A. § 8839; and
(vii) the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person is competent
to stand trial.
(C) The results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court and
the parties to the underlying criminal action.
(4)(A)
If the State’s Attorney demonstrates by clear and convincing
evidence at a hearing held pursuant to subdivision (3)(A) of this subsection (c)
or (B) of this subdivision (4) that the person has a qualifying condition that,
upon the person’s release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to
another person, the court shall order continued commitment of the person
consistent with the person’s forensic risk assessment.
The court shall order
treatment of the person, which may include appropriate supervision and
supervised housing, including a community-based placement, in the least
restrictive setting consistent with the person’s forensic risk assessment and
treatment needs.
(B) If continued commitment is ordered pursuant to subdivision (A)
of this subdivision (4), the person’s commitment shall be reviewed by the
court:
(i) every 12 months;
(ii) at any time upon the determination by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director that the person no longer has a qualifying condition
and the person’s release would not create a substantial risk of bodily injury to
another person; and
(iii)
upon petition of the person filed at any time after 90 days
following an order of continued commitment issued pursuant to subdivision
(A) of this subdivision (4), and thereafter not earlier than six months from the
issuance of an order for continued commitment under subdivision (4)(A) of
this subsection (c).


--- Page 109 ---
- 4660 -
(5)(A)
If the State’s Attorney does not demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence at a hearing held pursuant to subdivision (3)(A) or (4)(B)
of this subsection (c) that the person has a qualifying condition and the
person’s release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person, the court shall:
(i) order the release of the person under a prescribed regimen of
medical, psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, housing, and
supervision by the Commissioner of Mental Health; the Department of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living; or the Department of Health, that
the Agency of Human Services Medical Director has certified as appropriate;
and
(ii) order, as an explicit condition of supervision, that the person
comply with the prescribed regimen of medical, psychiatric, or psychological
care or treatment, housing, and supervision by the Commissioner of Mental
Health; the Department of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living; or the
Department of Health, together with any other conditions appropriate to
protect the public.
(B)
A person’s release pursuant to this subdivision (5) shall be
reviewed by the court every 12 months. The person shall be released from the
supervision of the Commissioner of Mental Health; the Department of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living; or the Department of Health
unless the State’s Attorney demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence at
the hearing that continued treatment and supervision is necessary to prevent
the person from becoming a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(C)(i) The State’s Attorney shall make a reasonable effort to provide
the victim with prior notice of any hearing held pursuant to this subdivision
(5). The court may continue the hearing if the victim has not been provided
with the notice required by this subdivision (C)(i).
(ii) At any hearing under this subdivision (5), the court shall ask if
the victim is present and, if so, shall offer the victim the opportunity to be
heard. The court may consider any views offered at the hearing by the victim,
including the victim’s views concerning the offense and preferences for the
person’s placement and care. If the victim is not present at the hearing, the
court shall ask whether the victim has expressed oral or written views
concerning the offense and preferences for the person’s placement and care,
and, if so, the court may consider those views.
(6)(A)
If the court finds that the person’s competency cannot be
restored, and finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is a person
in need of custody, care, and habilitation as defined in 18 V.S.A. § 8839, the


--- Page 110 ---
- 4661 -
court shall issue an order of commitment for up to one year directed to the
Commissioner of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living for placement in
a designated program in the least restrictive environment consistent with the
person’s need for custody, care, and habilitation. The order of commitment
shall have the same force and effect as an order issued under 18 V.S.A. chapter
206, subchapter 3 and persons committed under the order shall have the same
status, and the same rights, including the right to receive care and habilitation,
to be examined and discharged, and to apply for and obtain judicial review of
their cases, as persons ordered committed under 18 V.S.A. chapter 206,
subchapter 3.
(B)(i) The Commissioner shall provide appropriate custody, care, and
habilitation in a designated program to a person committed under subdivision
(A) of this subdivision (6).
(ii)
The court
may order continued treatment at the forensic
facility for a period not to exceed one year if the court finds that the
Commissioner is not currently able to provide appropriate custody, care, and
habilitation in a designated program.
For good cause shown the court may
extend the one-year period by an additional period not to exceed six months.
(C)(i) The court shall review an order of continued treatment issued
pursuant to subdivision (B)(ii) of this subdivision (6) every 90 days.
(ii) If the court finds at the review that that appropriate custody,
care, and habilitation can be provided to the person in a designated program,
the court shall vacate the order for continued treatment and order the person
committed to the custody of the Commissioner pursuant to subdivision (A) of
this subdivision (6).
(iii) If the court finds at the review that that appropriate custody,
care, and habilitation cannot be provided to the person in a designated
program, the court shall order continued treatment at the forensic facility
pursuant to subdivision (B)(ii) of this subdivision (6).
(D)
The Commissioner may at any time certify to the court that
appropriate custody, care, and habilitation can be provided to the person in a
designated program, and after such a certification the court shall vacate the
order for continued treatment and order the person committed to the custody of
the Commissioner pursuant to subdivision (A) of this subdivision (6).
(E)
As used in this subdivision (6), “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living.
(d) Except as provided in subdivisions (c)(4)(A), (c)(5), and (c)(6)(A) of
this section, the person shall remain at the forensic facility until the person is


--- Page 111 ---
- 4662 -
restored to competency or until there is a final disposition of the charges
against the person.
(e) The person shall receive competency restoration services while at the
forensic facility according to a plan approved by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director.
Such services shall include any appropriate
combination of medication, education, accommodations, habilitation, or other
services identified as necessary or proper to achieve and maintain competency
to stand trial. The person’s refusal to receive competency restoration services
shall not be grounds for release or dismissal from the forensic facility.
(f) Competency restoration services shall be provided to the person at the
forensic facility, or at another location as part of a discharge plan, until the
person is restored to competency or until there is a final disposition of the
charges against the person.
(g)(1)
As appropriate for the needs of the person, the Commissioner of
Mental Health; of Health; or of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living
shall actively monitor compliance with orders issued pursuant to subdivision
(c)(5) of this section.
Upon request from the commissioner monitoring the
person, the court shall immediately order return of a person to the forensic
facility if:
(A) the person was released from the facility pursuant to subdivision
(c)(5) of this section; and
(B) the Agency of Human Services Medical Director has reason to
believe that the person continues to have a qualifying condition and that the
person’s continued release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to
another person.
(2)
The commissioner monitoring the person shall notify the court
where the person was committed upon return of the person to the forensic
facility. Upon readmission, the court shall hold a hearing at which the State’s
Attorney shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition and that the person’s
continued release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person.
If the State’s Attorney meets its burden, the court shall order the
person readmitted to the forensic facility for treatment pursuant to this section.
If the State’s Attorney does not meet its burden, the court shall order the
person restored to the status the person had when the person was returned to
the facility.
(h) The Agency of Human Services Medical Director shall receive prior
approval of the Criminal Division of the Superior Court where the person’s


--- Page 112 ---
- 4663 -
underlying criminal charge is pending for any competency restoration plan
involving involuntary medication.
The court shall not approve involuntary
medication unless the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing
evidence that:
(1) the involuntary medication is medically appropriate;
(2)
the involuntary medication serves the important governmental
interests of bringing to trial an individual accused of a serious crime and
ensuring a fair, timely prosecution;
(3)
the involuntary medication significantly furthers these important
governmental interests by making it substantially likely to render the defendant
competent to stand trial; and
(4) any alternative, less intrusive treatments are unlikely to achieve the
same results.
(i)
When an evaluation is required of the person’s competency or
restorability under this section, the defense shall be entitled to conduct an
independent evaluation and introduce the results at the hearing.
Sec. 3. 13 V.S.A. § 4817 is amended to read:
§ 4817. COMPETENCY TO STAND TRIAL; DETERMINATION;
DISMISSAL
* * *
(e)(1)
When a person has been found incompetent to stand trial for an
alleged misdemeanor offense, the charges against the person shall be dismissed
without prejudice if, after the finding of incompetence, the case remains
inactive for a continuous period of time equal to or greater than the maximum
sentence for the offense. Dismissal under this section shall not be required if
the court finds that dismissing the case would be contrary to the interests of
justice.
(2)(A) If the offense is not a qualifying crime under subdivision 7601(4)
of this title, the court shall hold a hearing prior to dismissing a case under this
subsection (e). The State’s Attorney shall make a reasonable effort to provide
the victim with prior notice of the hearing, and the court may continue the
hearing if the victim has not been provided with the notice required by this
subdivision (2)(A).
(B) At the hearing, the court shall ask if the victim is present and, if
so, shall offer the victim the opportunity to be heard. The court may consider
any views offered at the hearing by the victim, including the victim’s views
concerning the offense and the interests of justice. If the victim is not present


--- Page 113 ---
- 4664 -
at the hearing, the court shall ask whether the victim has expressed oral or
written views concerning the offense and the interests of justice, and, if so, the
court may consider those views.
Sec. 4. 13 V.S.A § 4819a is added to read:
§ 4819a. FORENSIC FACILITY PLACEMENT FOR PERSONS
NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY FOR CERTAIN
CRIMES
(a)(1)
A person who is charged with an offense punishable by a life
sentence and is found not guilty only by reason of insanity at the time of the
offense charged shall be committed to a forensic facility pursuant to this
section. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the temporary transfer
of a person requiring inpatient treatment through an order of hospitalization
pursuant to 18 V.S.A. § 7619 or section 4822 of this title.
(2) The committing court shall retain jurisdiction over the person for all
proceedings under this section.
(b)(1)
A hearing shall be held by the court where the person was tried
within 60 days following admission to the forensic facility, unless that period
is extended by the court.
(2) Prior to the date of the hearing, the court shall order that a forensic
risk assessment of the person be conducted that includes:
(A) the person’s history and present dangerousness;
(B) a description of any tests that were employed and the results of
the tests;
(C) the examiner’s findings;
(D) the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person’s release would
create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person; and
(E) recommendations for evidence-based treatment and supervision
that would support the individual’s success and mitigate risk of aggression and
violence.
(3) The results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court and the
parties to the underlying criminal action.
(4)(A) At the hearing, the court shall order the person committed to the
forensic facility if the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.


--- Page 114 ---
- 4665 -
(B) If the State’s Attorney does not establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the
court shall enter an order releasing the person pursuant to subdivisions
(e)(3)(A) and (B) of this section.
(C) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or rule, witnesses at
the hearing shall be permitted to provide testimony remotely.
(c) A person committed to the forensic facility pursuant to this section shall
not be released until the court finds pursuant to subsection (e) of this section
that the person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(d)
The Agency of Human Services Medical Director shall, taking into
account public safety and the least restrictive conditions applicable, provide
adequate care and individualized treatment at the forensic facility to persons
ordered committed pursuant to this section. In order that the Medical Director
may adequately determine the nature of the person’s condition and needs, all
persons committed pursuant to this section shall be promptly examined by
qualified personnel in order to provide a proper evaluation, diagnosis, and
treatment plan.
(e)(1)(A)(i)
The State’s Attorney shall petition the committing court for
review of the person’s commitment:
(I)
six months after the date that the person is committed
pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this section;
(II)
three years after a commitment order issued following a
review under subdivision (I) of this subdivision (i);
(III)
every fifth year after a commitment order issued
following a review under subdivision (II) of this subdivision (i); and
(IV) at any time upon certification at any time to the Secretary
of Human Services by the Agency of Human Services Medical Director that
the person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(ii)
The Secretary of Human Services shall provide all reports
required under this section to the State’s Attorney, who shall file them with the
petition.
(B)(i) A person committed pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this
section may petition the committing court for release on the grounds that the


--- Page 115 ---
- 4666 -
person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(ii) A petition shall not be filed pursuant to this subdivision (B):
(I) until at least 90 days after the issuance of the commitment
order pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this section; and
(II) more frequently than once during each applicable period
set forth in subdivision (A)(i) of this subdivision (e)(1).
(2) If the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing evidence
that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the court
shall deny the petition and order the person committed to the forensic facility
for continued treatment pursuant to this section.
(3) If the State’s Attorney does not establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the
court shall:
(A)
order the release of the person under a prescribed regimen of
medical, psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, including supervision
and housing, that the Agency of Human Services Medical Director has
certified as appropriate; and
(B)
order, as an explicit condition of supervision, that the person
comply
with
the
prescribed
regimen
of
evidence-informed
medical,
psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, including supervision and
housing, together with any other conditions appropriate to protect the public.
(f) As appropriate for the needs of the person, the Commissioner of Mental
Health; of Health; or of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living shall
actively monitor compliance with orders issued pursuant to subdivision (e)(2)
of this section. Upon request from the commissioner monitoring the person,
the court shall immediately order return of the person to the forensic facility if
the Agency of Human Services Medical Director determines that the person is
noncompliant with the order and that the noncompliance may create a risk of
bodily injury to another person.
The commissioner monitoring the person
shall notify the court where the person was committed upon return of the
person to the forensic facility.
Upon readmission, the court shall hold a
hearing at which the State’s Attorney shall have the burden of establishing by
clear and convincing evidence that the person was noncompliant with the
court’s order for conditional release and that the noncompliance creates a risk
of bodily injury to another person.


--- Page 116 ---
- 4667 -
(g)(1) The State’s Attorney shall provide the victim with prior notice of
any hearing held pursuant to this section. The court may continue the hearing
if the victim has not been provided with the notice required by this
subdivision.
(2) At any hearing under this section, the court shall ask if the victim is
present and, if so, shall offer the victim the opportunity to be heard. The court
may consider any views offered at the hearing by the victim, including the
victim’s views concerning the offense and preferences for the person’s
placement and care. If the victim is not present at the hearing, the court shall
ask whether the victim has expressed oral or written views concerning the
offense and preferences for the person’s placement and care, and, if so, the
court may consider those views.
Sec. 5. 13 V.S.A. § 4826 is added to read:
§ 4826. FORENSIC FACILITY; DEFINITIONS
(a)(1) As used in this chapter:
(A)
“Competency can be restored” means a substantial probability
that in the foreseeable future the person will attain the capacity to permit the
proceedings to go forward.
(B) “Forensic facility” means a locked secure facility that provides a
suitable clinical setting and is licensed as a therapeutic community residence as
defined in 33 V.S.A. § 7102(11) where:
(i)
the Agency of Human Services provides for the secure
competency restoration, evaluation, stabilization, treatment, and care of
persons with a qualifying condition who are involved in the legal system and
who do not require a hospitalization level of care; and
(ii) a person is transferred pursuant to subsections 4815a(a) and
4819a(a) of this title.
(C)
“Qualifying condition” means any condition whether mental,
congenital, or traumatic, however acquired or developed, or any other
circumstance that resulted in the person being determined:
(i) incompetent to stand trial; or
(ii) not guilty by reason of insanity.
(2) The evaluations required by this chapter may be conducted pursuant
to contracts entered into between the Commissioner of Buildings and General
Services and evaluation providers.


--- Page 117 ---
- 4668 -
(3) Prior to any hearing under section 4815a or 4819a of this title, the
person shall be required, at the request of a party, to permit an expert
assessment of the person’s competency, forensic risk, or restorability to
competency.
(b) The Secretary of Human Services shall establish and operate a locked
secure
forensic
facility
for
the
competency
restoration,
evaluation,
stabilization, treatment, and care of persons who have been transferred
pursuant to subsections 4815a(a) and 4819a(a) of this title.
The forensic
facility’s clinical, forensic, and competency restoration services shall be
overseen by the Agency of Human Services Medical Director.
The
Department of Corrections shall not play a role in the forensic facility’s
operation, the provision of services, or internal security, except to provide
security services for the facility at the admitting area and around the outside
perimeter if the facility is co-located on the grounds of a correctional facility.
The forensic facility shall:
(1)
be designed and operated in a manner that supports therapeutic,
recovery-oriented,
and
trauma-informed
programming
in
a
therapeutic
community residence, while maintaining appropriate levels of safety and
security;
(2) not refuse any persons it is ordered to admit and shall not require
any clinical or diagnostic prerequisites for admission;
(3) provide for the safe competency restoration, evaluation, treatment,
stabilization, and care of persons, including the ability to separate the
population by sex or gender and to otherwise address clinical, safety, or
operational considerations as appropriate, including the possible operation of
multiple facilities;
(4)
follow the direction of the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, who shall oversee all forensic, clinical, and competency restoration
services provided to transferred persons;
(5)
implement staff qualifications, licensure, training, and supervision
requirements that are sufficient to ensure that persons transferred to the
forensic facility have access to clinically appropriate care, treatment, services,
and supports consistent with individual needs and with applicable professional
standards;
(6) ensure that a registered nurse licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A. chapter
28 or a physician licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A. chapter 23 or 33 is available
to provide care to transferred persons as clinically necessary;


--- Page 118 ---
- 4669 -
(7)
ensure that persons receive clinically appropriate assessment and
treatment planning and competency restoration plans, as appropriate, including
the development of an initial person-specific treatment plan within 72 hours
following transfer, which shall be reviewed periodically as clinically indicated;
(8)
ensure that clinical services and programming include psychiatric
care,
management
of
medications,
education
about
court
procedures,
habilitation, and trauma-informed care, as appropriate;
(9) continue to provide evaluation, treatment, stabilization, and care of a
resident who has regained competency while the resident awaits and
participates in the resident’s trial;
(10) provide residents with interpreters, as appropriate;
(11) implement grievance and appeals procedures; and
(12)
implement a process for reporting instances of death or serious
bodily injury to residents of the forensic facility to the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director.
(c) Any records related to a person placed at the forensic facility shall be
exempt from public inspection and copying under the Public Records Act and
shall be kept confidential, except that:
(1) the records shall be made available to the parties in the underlying
criminal case upon request; and
(2)
the person’s health care providers may, with the person’s
permission,
view forensic facility records of
the person’s psychiatric
assessments at the facility, including assessments of the person’s competency
to stand trial and criminal responsibility.
(d)
Persons shall be admitted to and maintained at the forensic facility
pursuant to sections 4815a and 4819a of this title, and in proceedings under
those sections shall be entitled to have counsel appointed from Vermont Legal
Aid to represent them.
(e)
The Secretary of Human Services shall regularly consult with the
Commissioners of
Corrections;
of
Mental Health;
of
Health;
and of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living when performing the duties
required by this chapter for operating the forensic facility.
(f)
The Agency of Human Services Medical Director and an evaluator
submitting a report pursuant to sections 4815a and 4819a of this title shall
testify at any hearing under those sections if requested by the court or a party.


--- Page 119 ---
- 4670 -
(g) The Secretary of Human Services shall adopt rules pursuant to 3 V.S.A.
chapter 25 to implement this section.
Sec. 6. 18 V.S.A. § 7257 is amended to read:
§ 7257. REPORTABLE ADVERSE EVENTS
(a) An acute inpatient hospital, an intensive residential recovery facility, a
designated agency, a psychiatric residential treatment facility for youth, a
forensic facility, or a secure residential recovery facility shall report to the
Department of Mental Health instances of death or serious bodily injury to
individuals with a mental condition or psychiatric disability in the custody or
temporary custody of the Commissioner.
* * *
Sec. 7. FEASIBILITY PLAN; FORENSIC FACILITY
(a) On or before January 15, 2027, the Secretary of Human Services, in
consultation with the Department of Buildings and General Services, shall
submit a feasibility plan for the development and operation of a forensic
facility to the House Committees on Appropriations, on Corrections and
Institutions, on Health Care, on Human Services, and on Judiciary and to the
Senate Committees on Appropriations, on Health and Welfare, on Institutions,
and on Judiciary. The feasibility plan shall assume that operation, staffing, and
programming at the forensic facility shall be provided by the Agency of
Human Services or its departments, with the exception that the Department of
Corrections shall not play a role in its operation, the provision of services, or
internal security, other than the provision of security services for the facility at
the admitting area and around the outside perimeter if the facility is co-located
on the grounds of a correctional facility. The feasibility plan shall address the
following:
(1)
the proposed location of a forensic facility, which shall be
independent from a correctional facility, and, if on the same grounds as a
correctional facility, shall be separated by sight and sound;
(2) the proposed design plans for a forensic facility that allows for the
ability to separate residents by sex or gender and clinical need;
(3) the number of beds within a forensic facility;
(4) the entity or entities responsible for operating and providing services
in a forensic facility;
(5) the timeline for constructing a stand-alone forensic facility or fitting
up an existing stand-alone facility to operate as a forensic facility;


--- Page 120 ---
- 4671 -
(6)
the estimated cost of constructing or fitting up and operating a
forensic facility;
(7)
which aspects of the therapeutic community residence rule would
need to be modified to operate the forensic facility as a therapeutic community
residence;
(8) the clinical services available at a forensic facility, including on-site
competency restoration services;
(9)
the proposed staffing levels, staff qualifications, and potential
contracting needs necessary to establish a multidisciplinary clinical team at the
forensic facility that reflects best practices, including required evidence-based,
trauma-informed staff training and multiple potential staffing strategies;
(10) the physical and staff security plan within and around the perimeter
of a forensic facility, including therapeutic design and clinical supervision that
reflect best practices, which shall not involve the Department of Corrections,
with the exception that employees of the Department of Corrections may
provide security services for the facility at the admitting area and around the
outside perimeter of the facility if it is co-located on the grounds of a
correctional facility;
(11)
a resident discharge and community monitoring plan from each
department with custody of individuals in the forensic facility, developed in
consultation with the Department of Corrections, that prioritizes community
safety and provides residential, clinical, and case management services;
(12) opportunities and cost estimates for persons who would be eligible
for placement at the forensic facility to receive, while the development of a
forensic facility in Vermont is pending, placement in an out-of-state residence
where clinically appropriate programming can be provided;
(13)
a plan for the expansion of 1988 Acts and Resolves No. 248 to
include individuals with a cognitive disability;
(14)
annual reporting metrics on the demographics, outcomes, and
staffing at the forensic facility; and
(15)
any recommendations for legislative action to effectuate the
development of a therapeutic, trauma-informed forensic facility.
(b) At the August and November 2026 meetings of the Joint Legislative
Justice Oversight Committee, the Secretary of Human Services or designee
shall provide an interim status update on the development of the feasibility
plan required pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and on the emergency
rulemaking required by Sec. 12 of this act.


--- Page 121 ---
- 4672 -
(c)(1)
Funds appropriated to the Agency of Human Services and its
departments in fiscal year 2027 shall be used to complete the feasibility plan
required by this section and any other planning activities necessary to
implement this act, but absent further legislative enactment by the General
Assembly, the Agency and its departments shall not expend funds in fiscal year
2027 for the construction or fit-up of a forensic facility.
(2) No further legislative enactment by the General Assembly shall be
required to implement the interim forensic and competency restoration
program established by emergency rules adopted pursuant to Sec. 12 of this
act. The interim forensic and competency restoration program is contingent on
the availability of sufficient resources including appropriate staffing levels.
Sec. 8. Rule 1101 of the Vermont Rules of Evidence is amended to read:
RULE 1101. APPLICABILITY OF RULES
(a)
Rules applicable.
Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b),
these rules apply to all actions and proceedings in the courts of this state.
(b)
Rules inapplicable.
The rules other than those with respect to
privileges do not apply in the following situations:
* * *
(3)
Miscellaneous Proceedings.
Proceedings for extradition or
rendition; inquest proceedings; except as otherwise provided by statute or rule
promulgated by the Supreme Court, sentencing or granting or revoking
probation;
proceedings
concerning competency
restoration;
granting
or
revoking conditional release from a forensic facility; finding probable cause
for arrests without warrant and issuance of citations, warrants for arrest,
criminal summonses, and search warrants.
* * *
Sec. 9. 13 V.S.A. § 4815a is added to read:
§ 4815a. COMPETENCY RESTORATION SERVICES WITHIN
FORENSIC FACILITY
(a) A person shall be placed at the forensic facility established in section
4826 of this title if the person:
(1) has been charged with an offense punishable by a life sentence;
(2)(A) has been held without bail pursuant to section 7553 of this title;
or


--- Page 122 ---
- 4673 -
(B) if the person is not held without bail pursuant to section 7553 of
this title, has a qualifying condition and it has been determined that the
person’s release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person;
(3) is not currently:
(A) receiving treatment through an order of hospitalization pursuant
to 18 V.S.A. § 7619 or section 4822 of this title; or
(B)
subject to an order of commitment to the Commissioner of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living issued under 18 V.S.A. § 8845 or
section 4823 of this title, unless the person is detained in a correctional facility
pending trial; and
(4) has been found not competent to stand trial.
(b)(1)
The forensic facility shall cause the person to be evaluated for
competency to stand trial:
(A) six months from the date of admission, and thereafter every six
months from the issuance of an order for continued competency restoration
treatment under subdivision (3)(B) of this subsection (b); and
(B)
at any time upon the determination by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director that the person is likely competent to stand trial or
that it is unlikely that the person’s competency can be restored.
(2) The court shall hold a hearing after the competency evaluation, and
prior to the hearing, the results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court
and the parties to the underlying criminal action.
(3)(A) If the court finds after the hearing that the person is competent to
stand trial, the court shall immediately notify the State’s Attorney and the
person’s counsel in the criminal case.
(B)
If the court finds after the hearing that the person is not
competent to stand trial, the court shall order continued competency
restoration treatment at the facility pursuant to this section.
(4)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or rule, witnesses at
hearings held pursuant to this section shall be permitted to provide testimony
remotely.
(c)(1) At the request of a party or the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, the court may order that a competency evaluation conducted pursuant
to subsection (b) of this section include an opinion on whether the person’s
competency can be restored. If a request is made pursuant to this subsection,


--- Page 123 ---
- 4674 -
the forensic facility shall cause the person to be evaluated for restorability to
competence prior to the hearing.
(2) If the court finds that the person’s competency can be restored, the
court shall order continued competency restoration treatment at the facility
pursuant to this section.
(3)(A)
If the court finds that the person’s competency cannot be
restored, the court shall hold a hearing within 60 days unless that period is
extended by the court for good cause.
(B)
Prior to the date of the hearing, the court shall order that a
forensic risk assessment of the person be conducted by an evaluator
appropriately qualified for the qualifying condition of the person that includes:
(i) the person’s history and present dangerousness;
(ii) a description of any tests that were employed and the results
of the tests;
(iii) the examiner’s findings;
(iv)
the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person’s release
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person;
(v)
recommendations
for
evidence-based
treatment
and
supervision, including in a community-based placement, that would support
the person’s success and mitigate risk of aggression and violence; and
(vi) the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person is a person in
need of custody, care, and habilitation as defined in 18 V.S.A. § 8839.
(C) The results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court and
the parties to the underlying criminal action.
(4)(A)
If the State’s Attorney demonstrates by clear and convincing
evidence at a hearing held pursuant to subdivision (3)(A) of this subsection (c)
or subdivision (B) of this subdivision (4) that the person has a qualifying
condition that, upon the person’s release, would create a substantial risk of
bodily injury to another person, the court shall order continued commitment of
the person consistent with the person’s forensic risk assessment.
The court
shall order treatment of the person, which may include appropriate supervision
and supervised housing, including in a community-based placement, in the
least restrictive setting consistent with the person’s forensic risk assessment
and treatment needs.


--- Page 124 ---
- 4675 -
(B) If continued commitment is ordered pursuant to subdivision (A)
of this subdivision (4), the person’s commitment shall be reviewed by the
court:
(i) every 12 months;
(ii) at any time upon the determination by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director that the person no longer has a qualifying condition
and the person’s release would not create a substantial risk of bodily injury to
another person; and
(iii)
upon petition of the person filed at any time after 90 days
following an order of continued commitment issued pursuant to subdivision
(A) of this subdivision (4), and thereafter not earlier than six months from the
issuance of an order for continued commitment under subdivision (4)(A) of
this subsection (c).
(5)(A)
If the State’s Attorney does not demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence at a hearing held pursuant to subdivision (3)(A) or (4)(B)
of this subsection (c) that the person has a qualifying condition and the
person’s release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person, the court shall:
(i) order the release of the person under a prescribed regimen of
medical, psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, housing, and
supervision by the Department of Corrections in collaboration with the
Commissioner of Mental Health; the Department of Disabilities, Aging, and
Independent Living; or the Department of Health, that the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director has certified as appropriate; and
(ii) order, as an explicit condition of supervision, that the person
comply with the prescribed regimen of medical, psychiatric, or psychological
care or treatment, housing, and supervision by the Department of Corrections
in collaboration with the Commissioner of Mental Health; the Department of
Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living; or the Department of Health,
together with any other conditions appropriate to protect the public.
(B)
A person’s release pursuant to this subdivision (5) shall be
reviewed by the court every 12 months. The person shall be released from the
supervision of the Commissioner of Corrections unless the State’s Attorney
demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence at the hearing that continued
treatment and supervision is necessary to prevent the person from becoming a
substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(C)(i) The State’s Attorney shall make a reasonable effort to provide
the victim with prior notice of any hearing held pursuant to this subdivision


--- Page 125 ---
- 4676 -
(5). The court may continue the hearing if the victim has not been provided
with the notice required by this subdivision (C)(i).
(ii) At any hearing under this subdivision (5), the court shall ask if
the victim is present and, if so, shall offer the victim the opportunity to be
heard. The court may consider any views offered at the hearing by the victim,
including the victim’s views concerning the offense and preferences for the
person’s placement and care. If the victim is not present at the hearing, the
court shall ask whether the victim has expressed oral or written views
concerning the offense and preferences for the person’s placement and care,
and, if so, the court may consider those views.
(6)(A)
If the court finds that the person’s competency cannot be
restored, and finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is a person
in need of custody, care, and habilitation as defined in 18 V.S.A. § 8839, the
court shall issue an order of commitment for up to one year directed to the
Commissioner of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living for placement in
a designated program in the least restrictive environment consistent with the
person’s need for custody, care, and habilitation. The order of commitment
shall have the same force and effect as an order issued under 18 V.S.A. chapter
206, subchapter 3 and persons committed under the order shall have the same
status, and the same rights, including the right to receive care and habilitation,
to be examined and discharged, and to apply for and obtain judicial review of
their cases, as persons ordered committed under 18 V.S.A. chapter 206,
subchapter 3.
(B)(i) The Commissioner shall provide appropriate custody, care, and
habilitation in a designated program to a person committed under subdivision
(A) of this subdivision (6).
(ii)
The court
may order continued treatment at the forensic
facility for a period not to exceed one year if the court finds that the
Commissioner is not currently able to provide appropriate custody, care, and
habilitation in a designated program. For good cause shown, the court may
extend the one-year period by an additional period not to exceed six months.
(C)(i) The court shall review an order of continued treatment issued
pursuant to subdivision (B)(ii) of this subdivision (6) every 90 days.
(ii) If the court finds at the review that appropriate custody, care,
and habilitation can be provided to the person in a designated program, the
court shall vacate the order for continued treatment and order the person
committed to the custody of the Commissioner pursuant to subdivision (A) of
this subdivision (6).


--- Page 126 ---
- 4677 -
(iii) If the court finds at the review that appropriate custody, care,
and habilitation cannot be provided to the person in a designated program, the
court shall order continued treatment at the forensic facility pursuant to
subdivision (B)(ii) of this subdivision (6).
(D)
The Commissioner may at any time certify to the court that
appropriate custody, care, and habilitation can be provided to the person in a
designated program, and after such a certification the court shall vacate the
order for continued treatment and order the person committed to the custody of
the Commissioner pursuant to subdivision (A) of this subdivision (6).
(E)
As used in this subdivision (6), “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living.
(d) Except as provided in subdivisions (c)(4)(A), (c)(5), and (c)(6)(A) of
this section, the person shall remain at the forensic facility until the person is
restored to competency or until there is a final disposition of the charges
against the person.
(e) The person shall receive competency restoration services while at the
forensic facility according to a plan approved by the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director.
Such services shall include any appropriate
combination of medication, education, accommodations, habilitation, or other
services identified as necessary or proper to achieve and maintain competency
to stand trial. The person’s refusal to receive competency restoration services
shall not be grounds for release or dismissal from the forensic facility.
(f) Competency restoration services shall be provided to the person at the
forensic facility, or at another location as part of a discharge plan, until the
person is restored to competency or until there is a final disposition of the
charges against the person.
(g)(1) As appropriate for the needs of the person, the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director, in consultation with the Commissioner of Mental
Health; of Health; or of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living, shall
actively monitor compliance with orders issued pursuant to subdivision (c)(5)
of this section. Upon request from the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, the court shall immediately order the return of a person to the
forensic facility if:
(A) the person was released from the facility pursuant to subdivision
(c)(5) of this section; and
(B) the Agency of Human Services Medical Director has reason to
believe that the person has a qualifying condition and that the person’s


--- Page 127 ---
- 4678 -
continued release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person.
(2) The Agency of Human Services Medical Director shall notify the
court where the person was committed upon return of the person to the
forensic facility. Upon readmission, the court shall hold a hearing at which the
State’s Attorney shall have the burden of establishing by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition and that the person’s
continued release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
person.
If the State’s Attorney meets its burden, the court shall order the
person readmitted to the forensic facility for treatment pursuant to this section.
If the State’s Attorney does not meet its burden, the court shall order the
person restored to the status the person had when the person was returned to
the facility.
(h) The Agency of Human Services Medical Director shall receive prior
approval of the Criminal Division of the Superior Court where the person’s
underlying criminal charge is pending for any competency restoration plan
involving involuntary medication.
The court shall not approve involuntary
medication unless the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing
evidence that:
(1) the involuntary medication is medically appropriate;
(2)
the involuntary medication serves the important governmental
interests of bringing to trial an individual accused of a serious crime and
ensuring a fair, timely prosecution;
(3)
the involuntary medication significantly furthers these important
governmental interests by making it substantially likely to render the defendant
competent to stand trial; and
(4) any alternative, less intrusive treatments are unlikely to achieve the
same results.
(i)
When an evaluation of the person’s competency or restorability is
required under this section, the defense shall be entitled to conduct an
independent evaluation and introduce the results at the hearing.
Sec. 10. 13 V.S.A § 4819a is added to read:
§ 4819a. FORENSIC FACILITY PLACEMENT FOR PERSONS
NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY FOR CERTAIN
CRIMES
(a)(1)
A person who is charged with an offense punishable by a life
sentence and is found not guilty only by reason of insanity at the time of the


--- Page 128 ---
- 4679 -
offense charged shall be committed to a forensic facility pursuant to this
section. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the temporary transfer
of a person requiring inpatient treatment through an order of hospitalization
pursuant to 18 V.S.A. § 7619 or section 4822 of this title.
(2) The committing court shall retain jurisdiction over the person for all
proceedings under this section.
(b)(1)
A hearing shall be held by the court where the person was tried
within 60 days following admission to the forensic facility, unless that period
is extended by the court.
(2) Prior to the date of the hearing, the court shall order that a forensic
risk assessment of the person be conducted that includes:
(A) the person’s history and present dangerousness;
(B) a description of any tests that were employed and the results of
the tests;
(C) the examiner’s findings;
(D) the examiner’s opinion as to whether the person’s release would
create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person; and
(E) recommendations for evidence-based treatment and supervision
that would support the individual’s success and mitigate risk of aggression and
violence.
(3) The results of all evaluations shall be supplied to the court and the
parties to the underlying criminal action.
(4)(A) At the hearing, the court shall order the person committed to the
forensic facility if the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(B) If the State’s Attorney does not establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the
court shall enter an order releasing the person pursuant to subdivisions
(e)(3)(A) and (B) of this section.
(C) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or rule, witnesses at
the hearing shall be permitted to provide testimony remotely.
(c) A person committed to the forensic facility pursuant to this section shall
not be released until the court finds pursuant to subsection (e) of this section


--- Page 129 ---
- 4680 -
that the person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(d)
The Agency of Human Services Medical Director shall, taking into
account public safety and the least restrictive conditions applicable, provide
adequate care and individualized treatment at the forensic facility to persons
ordered committed pursuant to this section. In order that the Medical Director
may adequately determine the nature of the person’s condition and needs, all
persons committed pursuant to this section shall be promptly examined by
qualified personnel in order to provide a proper evaluation, diagnosis, and
treatment plan.
(e)(1)(A)(i)
The State’s Attorney shall petition the committing court for
review of the person’s commitment:
(I)
six months after the date that the person is committed
pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this section;
(II)
three years after a commitment order issued following a
review under subdivision (I) of this subdivision (i);
(III)
every fifth year after a commitment order issued
following a review under subdivision (II) of this subdivision (i); and
(IV) at any time upon certification at any time to the Secretary
of Human Services by the Agency of Human Services Medical Director that
the person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(ii)
The Secretary of Human Services shall provide all reports
required under this section to the State’s Attorney, who shall file them with the
petition.
(B)(i) A person committed pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this
section may petition the committing court for release on the grounds that the
person no longer has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person.
(ii) A petition shall not be filed pursuant to this subdivision (B):
(I) until at least 90 days after the issuance of the commitment
order pursuant to subdivision (b)(4)(A) of this section; and
(II) more frequently than once during each applicable period
set forth in subdivision (A)(i) of this subdivision (e)(1).
(2) If the State’s Attorney establishes by clear and convincing evidence
that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s release,


--- Page 130 ---
- 4681 -
would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the court
shall deny the petition and order the person committed to the forensic facility
for continued treatment pursuant to this section.
(3) If the State’s Attorney does not establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the person has a qualifying condition that, upon the person’s
release, would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person, the
court shall:
(A)
order the release of the person under a prescribed regimen of
medical, psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, including supervision
and housing, that the Agency of Human Services Medical Director has
certified as appropriate; and
(B)
order, as an explicit condition of supervision, that the person
comply
with
the
prescribed
regimen
of
evidence-informed
medical,
psychiatric, or psychological care or treatment, including supervision and
housing, together with any other conditions appropriate to protect the public.
(f)
As appropriate for the needs of the person, the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director, in consultation with the Commissioner of Mental
Health; of Health; or of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living, shall
actively monitor compliance with orders issued pursuant to subdivision (e)(2)
of this section. Upon request from the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, the court shall immediately order the return of the person to the
forensic facility if the Medical Director determines that the person is
noncompliant with the order and that the noncompliance may create a risk of
bodily injury to another person.
The Agency of Human Services Medical
Director shall notify the court where the person was committed upon return of
the person to the forensic facility. Upon readmission, the court shall hold a
hearing at which the State’s Attorney shall have the burden of establishing by
clear and convincing evidence that the person was noncompliant with the
court’s order for conditional release and that the noncompliance creates a risk
of bodily injury to another person.
(g)(1) The State’s Attorney shall provide the victim with prior notice of
any hearing held pursuant to this section. The court may continue the hearing
if the victim has not been provided with the notice required by this
subdivision.
(2) At any hearing under this section, the court shall ask if the victim is
present and, if so, shall offer the victim the opportunity to be heard. The court
may consider any views offered at the hearing by the victim, including the
victim’s views concerning the offense and preferences for the person’s
placement and care. If the victim is not present at the hearing, the court shall


--- Page 131 ---
- 4682 -
ask whether the victim has expressed oral or written views concerning the
offense and preferences for the person’s placement and care, and, if so, the
court may consider those views.
Sec. 11. 13 V.S.A. § 4826 is added to read:
§ 4826. FORENSIC FACILITY; DEFINITIONS
(a)(1) As used in this chapter:
(A)
“Competency can be restored” means a substantial probability
that in the foreseeable future the person will attain the capacity to permit the
proceedings to go forward.
(B) “Forensic facility” means the interim forensic and competency
restoration program established by emergency rules adopted pursuant to Sec.
12 of this act, which shall be a locked secure facility where:
(i)
the Agency of Human Services provides for the secure
competency restoration, evaluation, stabilization, treatment, and care of
persons with a qualifying condition who are involved in the legal system and
who do not require a hospitalization level of care; and
(ii) a person is transferred pursuant to subsections 4815a(a) and
4819a(a) of this title.
(C)
“Qualifying condition” means any condition whether mental,
congenital, or traumatic, however acquired or developed, or any other
circumstance that resulted in the person being determined:
(i) incompetent to stand trial; or
(ii) not guilty by reason of insanity.
(2) The evaluations required by this chapter may be conducted pursuant
to contracts entered into between the Commissioner of Buildings and General
Services and evaluation providers.
(3) Prior to any hearing under section 4815a or 4819a of this title, the
person shall be required, at the request of a party, to permit an expert
assessment of the person’s competency, forensic risk, or restorability to
competency.
(b) The Secretary of Human Services shall establish and operate a locked
secure
forensic
facility
for
the
competency
restoration,
evaluation,
stabilization, treatment, and care of persons who have been transferred
pursuant to subsections 4815a(a) and 4819a(a) of this title.
The forensic
facility’s clinical, forensic, and competency restoration services shall be


--- Page 132 ---
- 4683 -
overseen by the Agency of Human Services Medical Director. The forensic
facility shall:
(1)
be designed and operated in a manner that supports therapeutic,
recovery-oriented, and trauma-informed programming while maintaining
appropriate levels of safety and security;
(2) not refuse any persons it is ordered to admit and shall not require
any clinical or diagnostic prerequisites for admission;
(3) provide for the safe competency restoration, evaluation, treatment,
stabilization, and care of persons, including the ability to separate the
population by sex or gender and to otherwise address clinical, safety, or
operational considerations as appropriate, including the possible operation of
multiple facilities;
(4)
follow the direction of the Agency of Human Services Medical
Director, who shall oversee all forensic, clinical, and competency restoration
services provided to transferred persons;
(5)
implement staff qualifications, licensure, training, and supervision
requirements that are sufficient to ensure that persons transferred to the
forensic facility have access to clinically appropriate care, treatment, services,
and supports consistent with individual needs and with applicable professional
standards;
(6) ensure that a registered nurse licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A. chapter
28 or a physician licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A. chapter 23 or 33 is available
to provide care to transferred persons as clinically necessary;
(7)
ensure that persons receive clinically appropriate assessment and
treatment planning and competency restoration plans, as appropriate, including
the development of an initial person-specific treatment plan within 72 hours
following transfer, which shall be reviewed periodically as clinically indicated;
(8)
ensure that clinical services and programming include psychiatric
care,
management
of
medications,
education
about
court
procedures,
habilitation, and trauma-informed care, as appropriate;
(9) continue to provide evaluation, treatment, stabilization, and care of a
resident who has regained competency while the resident awaits and
participates in the resident’s trial;
(10) provide residents with interpreters, as appropriate;
(11) implement grievance and appeals procedures; and


--- Page 133 ---
- 4684 -
(12)
implement a process for reporting instances of death or serious
bodily injury to residents of the forensic facility to the Agency of Human
Services Medical Director.
(c) Any records related to a person placed at the forensic facility shall be
exempt from public inspection and copying under the Public Records Act and
shall be kept confidential, except that:
(1) the records shall be made available to the parties in the underlying
criminal case upon request; and
(2)
the person’s health care providers may, with the person’s
permission,
view forensic facility records of
the person’s psychiatric
assessments at the facility, including assessments of the person’s competency
to stand trial and criminal responsibility.
(d)
Persons shall be admitted to and maintained at the forensic facility
pursuant to sections 4815a and 4819a of this title and in proceedings under
those sections shall be entitled to have counsel appointed from Vermont Legal
Aid to represent them.
(e)
The Secretary of Human Services shall regularly consult with the
Agency of
Human Services Medical Director and the Commissioners of
Corrections; of Mental Health; of Health; and of Disabilities, Aging, and
Independent Living when performing the duties required by this chapter for
operating the forensic facility.
(f)
The Agency of Human Services Medical Director and an evaluator
submitting a report pursuant to sections 4815a and 4819a of this title shall
testify at any hearing under those sections if requested by the court or a party.
Sec. 12. EMERGENCY RULEMAKING; INTERIM FORENSIC
AND COMPETENCY RESTORATION PROGRAM
(a) On or before December 31, 2026, the Secretary of Human Services, in
consultation with the Departments of Corrections; of Health; of Mental Health;
and of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living, shall adopt emergency
rules pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 to establish an interim forensic and
competency restoration program that shall be effective on July 1, 2027 and
shall operate pending the completion of a permanent forensic facility.
The
emergency rules shall establish for the interim forensic and competency
restoration program and consistent with the standards and procedures of Secs.
9, 10, and 11 of this act:
(1) clinically appropriate standards governing the provision of services
in the forensic and competency restoration program, including requirements
related to staffing patterns and ratios; staff qualifications; where the person is


--- Page 134 ---
- 4685 -
placed within a Department of Corrections facility; licensure and training;
clinical supervision; and the delivery of safe, effective, evidence-informed
care;
(2) standards for quality assurance and improvement, clinical oversight,
documentation and reporting requirements; safety and risk management
protocols, and mechanisms for monitoring compliance;
(3) the manner in which the Department of Corrections would cooperate
with and obtain necessary information from other departments about persons
released under supervision from the forensic and competency restoration
program;
(4) opportunities and cost estimates for persons who would be eligible
for placement at the forensic facility to receive, while the development of a
forensic facility in Vermont is pending, competency restoration services within
a Vermont correctional facility, provided that the entity which provides the
services shall not be under contract with the Department of Corrections;
(5) victim notification procedures, including:
(A) which events within the program will trigger victim notification;
(B) who will provide victim notification and by what methods;
(C)
how victims will be informed of their right to receive
notifications; and
(D) the processes that will permit victims to opt in and opt out of
receiving notifications; and
(6)
any other provisions necessary to ensure the safe, effective, and
clinically appropriate implementation of Secs. 9, 10, and 11 of this act,
including potentially requiring the provision of forensic services in a unit that
is separate from other correctional populations.
(b) The emergency rules adopted pursuant to this section shall:
(1) be deemed to have met the standard for emergency rulemaking set
forth in 3 V.S.A. § 844(a);
(2)
notwithstanding 3 V.S.A. § 844(b), remain in effect until July 1,
2029, and
(3) be repealed on July 1, 2029.


--- Page 135 ---
- 4686 -
Sec. 13. REPEALS
Sec. 9–11 shall be repealed on July 1, 2029.
Sec. 14. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) This section, Sec. 1, Sec. 3, and Secs. 6–13 shall take effect on July 1,
2026.
(b) Secs. 2, 4, and 5 shall take effect on July 1, 2029.
S. 278.
An act relating to cannabis.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
* * * Packaging Limit * * *
Sec. 1. [Deleted.]
* * * Transaction Limit * * *
Sec. 2. 7 V.S.A. § 907 is amended to read:
§ 907. RETAILER LICENSE
* * *
(b) In a single transaction, a retailer may provide one ounce two ounces of
cannabis or the equivalent in cannabis products, or a combination thereof, to a
person 21 years of age or older upon verification of a valid government-issued
photograph identification card.
* * *
Sec. 3. 18 V.S.A. § 4230 is amended to read:
§ 4230. CANNABIS
(a) Possession and cultivation.
(1) No person shall knowingly and unlawfully possess more than one
ounce two ounces of cannabis or more than five 10 grams of hashish or
cultivate more than two mature cannabis plants or four immature cannabis
plants. A person who violates this subdivision shall be assessed a civil penalty
as follows:
* * *
(2)(A)
No person shall knowingly and unlawfully possess more than
two ounces or more of cannabis or ten 10 grams or more of hashish or more


--- Page 136 ---
- 4687 -
than three mature cannabis plants or six immature cannabis plants. For a first
offense under this subdivision (2), a person shall be provided the opportunity
to participate in the Court Diversion Program unless the prosecutor states on
the record why a referral to the Court Diversion Program would not serve the
ends of justice. A person convicted of a first offense under this subdivision
shall be imprisoned not more than six months or fined not more than $500.00,
or both.
* * *
Sec. 4. 18 V.S.A. § 4230a is amended to read:
§ 4230a. CANNABIS POSSESSION BY A PERSON 21 YEARS OF AGE
OR OLDER
(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person 21 years of
age or older who possesses one ounce two ounces or less of cannabis or five 10
grams or less of hashish and two mature cannabis plants or fewer or four
immature cannabis plants or fewer or who possesses paraphernalia for
cannabis use shall not be penalized or sanctioned in any manner by the State or
any of its political subdivisions or denied any right or privilege under State
law. The one-ounce two-ounce limit of cannabis or five 10 grams of hashish
that may be possessed by a person 21 years of age or older shall not include
cannabis cultivated, harvested, and stored in accordance with section 4230e of
this title.
* * *
* * * Event Permit; Pilot Program * * *
Sec. 5. 7 V.S.A. § 912 is added to read:
§ 912. EVENT PERMIT
(a) Authorization. The Board may grant event permits to licensed cannabis
retail establishments in good standing.
The holder of an event permit is
authorized to oversee and administer a commercial event pursuant to this
section and procedures adopted by the Board.
No cannabis or cannabis
products shall be consumed at an event authorized by this section.
(b) Eligibility. A licensed cannabis retail establishment is eligible to apply
for an event permit, provided that the establishment submits a fee and
application demonstrating to the Board’s satisfaction:
(1) that the establishment has received written approval from the local
cannabis control commission created pursuant to 7 V.S.A. § 863, or the
municipal legislative body if no local cannabis control commission exists,


--- Page 137 ---
- 4688 -
which may include conditions and limitations appropriate to protect the public,
manage traffic, and abate nuisance;
(2) a security plan to ensure that intoxicated persons or persons under 21
years of age cannot access the space subject to the permit, that the premises are
secured from diversion or inversion, and that the premises lawfully may be
used for the purpose intended;
(3) a product sale plan that describes quantities and types of cannabis
and cannabis products that will be offered for sale and how the cannabis will
be transported, monitored, secured, displayed, and sold in conformity with
State law and Board rule;
(4)
capacity to administer and enforce the required plans, and
confirmation that the applicant has secured the services of a county law
enforcement agency or private security provider licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A.
chapter 59, if required by the Board;
(5) proof of commercially reasonable insurance for the proposed event;
and
(6) compliance with any other health and safety requirements that the
Board may prescribe for the particular event or event location, including limits
on attendees.
(c) Restrictions. Annually, the Board shall issue not more than ten permits
for public events. An event permit shall be issued only for events being held
at locations within a municipality that has voted affirmatively to permit the
operation of cannabis retail establishments. An event permit shall be valid for
a single event not to exceed 24 hours held at a single access-controlled
location. An event permit shall not be issued for a location at which alcoholic
beverages are sold or furnished for on-premises consumption.
A cannabis
retailer that holds an event permit shall not conduct sales at the licensed retail
location and the permitted event contemporaneously, except for sales
conducted from a permitted event location that is contiguous with the licensed
retail location. The holder of an event permit shall sell only registered adult-
use cannabis and cannabis products at the event.
(d)
Noncompliance; penalties.
Deviation from security and sales plans,
product tracking and taxation requirements, or permit terms shall be a
violation subject to adverse licensing action consistent with Board rules.
(e) Fee. Cannabis retail establishments shall be assessed a fee of $500.00
to apply for an event permit, of which 50 percent shall be distributed to the
host municipality and 50 percent shall be deposited in the Cannabis Regulation
Fund.


--- Page 138 ---
- 4689 -
(f)
Procedures.
The Board shall adopt procedures pursuant to 3 V.S.A.
§ 835 to govern the event permits issued pursuant to this section, including
application procedures and associated forms, the permittee selection process,
security requirements, and event site restrictions.
(1) For each procedure proposed to be adopted or amended pursuant to
this section, the Board shall publish the proposed procedure on the Board’s
website and hold not fewer than two public hearings at which members of the
public may seek additional information or submit oral or written comments
concerning the proposed procedure.
(2) The Board shall not be required to initiate rulemaking pursuant to
3 V.S.A. § 831(c) in relation to a procedure adopted pursuant to this section.
A procedure adopted pursuant to this section shall have the force of law and be
binding on all persons who apply for and hold an event permit pursuant to this
section.
Sec. 6. [Deleted.]
Sec. 7. 32 V.S.A. § 7902 is amended to read:
§ 7902. CANNABIS EXCISE TAX
* * *
(b) The tax imposed by this section shall be paid by the purchaser to the
retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit.
Each retailer or
integrated licensee permit holder shall collect from the purchaser the full
amount of the tax payable on each taxable sale.
* * *
Sec. 8. 32 V.S.A. § 7904 is amended to read:
§ 7904. RETURNS; RECORDS
(a) Any retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit required to
collect the tax imposed by this chapter shall, on or before the 25th day of every
month, return to the Department of Taxes, under oath of a person with legal
authority to bind the retailer or integrated licensee permit holder, a statement
containing its name and place of business, the total amount of sales subject to
the cannabis excise tax made in the preceding month, and any information
required by the Department of Taxes, along with the total tax due. Retailers
and integrated licensees permit holders shall not remit the tax collected to the
Department of Taxes in cash absent the issuance of a waiver by the
Commissioner of Taxes, and the Commissioner may require that returns be
submitted electronically.


--- Page 139 ---
- 4690 -
(b) Every retailer and integrated licensee permit holder shall maintain, for
not less than three years, accurate records showing all transactions subject to
tax liability under this chapter. The records are subject to inspection by the
Department of Taxes at all reasonable times during normal business hours.
Sec. 9. 32 V.S.A. § 7906 is amended to read:
§ 7906. LICENSE
(a) Any retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit required to
collect tax imposed by this chapter must apply for and receive a cannabis retail
tax license from the Commissioner for each place of business within the State
where he or she the retailer or permit holder sells cannabis or cannabis
products prior to commencing business.
The Commissioner shall issue
without charge a license, or licenses, empowering the retailer or integrated
licensee permit holder to collect the cannabis excise tax, provided that a
retailer’s or integrated licensee’s permit holder’s application is properly
submitted and the retailer or integrated licensee permit holder is otherwise in
compliance with applicable laws, rules, and provisions.
* * *
Sec. 10. CANNABIS CONTROL BOARD; RULES AND REPORT
(a) On or before July 1, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall initiate
rulemaking pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 to adopt rules governing the event
permit established in Sec. 5 of this act.
(b) On or before November 15, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall
submit a written report to the House Committee on Government Operations
and Military Affairs and the Senate Committee on Economic Development,
Housing and General Affairs concerning the event permit established in Sec. 5
of this act.
The report shall include a concise assessment of the benefits,
challenges, and administrative viability of the event permit program.
The
Board may recommend best practices for security, inventory tracking, tax
enforcement, permit administration, local government coordination, and
optimizing market access for small cultivators. The Board shall recommend
updates to the statute governing event permits, including whether the statute
should be repealed on the date set by this act.
* * * Outdoor Cultivator Fees * * *
Sec. 10a. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:


--- Page 140 ---
- 4691 -
(1) Cultivators.
(A) Outdoor cultivators.
(i) Outdoor cultivator tier 1. Outdoor cultivators with up to 1,000
square feet of plant canopy or fewer than 125 cannabis plants in an outdoor
cultivation space shall be assessed an annual licensing fee of $750.00 $375.00.
(ii)
Outdoor cultivator tier 2.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
2,500 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $1,875.00 $925.00.
(iii)
Outdoor cultivator tier 3.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
5,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $4,000.00 $2,000.00.
(iv)
Outdoor cultivator tier 4.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
10,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $8,000.00 $4,000.00.
(v)
Outdoor cultivator tier 5.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
20,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $18,000.00 $9,000.00.
(vi) Outdoor cultivator tier 6. Outdoor cultivators with up to
37,500 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $34,000.00.
* * *
* * * Municipal Authority * * *
Sec. 11. 7 V.S.A. § 863 is amended to read:
§ 863. REGULATION BY LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(a)(1)
Prior to a cannabis retailer or the retail portion of an integrated
licensee operating within a municipality, the municipality shall affirmatively
permit the operation of such cannabis establishments by majority vote of those
present and voting by Australian ballot at an annual or special meeting warned
for that purpose. A municipality may place retailers or integrated licensees, or
both, on the ballot for approval.
(2)
A vote to permit the operation of a licensed cannabis retailer or
integrated licensee within the municipality shall remain in effect until
rescinded by majority vote of those present and voting by Australian ballot at a
subsequent annual or special meeting warned for that purpose. A rescission of
the permission to operate a licensed cannabis retailer or integrated licensee
within the municipality under this subdivision shall not apply to a licensed


--- Page 141 ---
- 4692 -
cannabis retailer or integrated licensee that is operating within the municipality
at the time of the vote.
* * *
* * * Distribution of Local License Fees to Municipalities * * *
Sec. 12. 7 V.S.A. § 846 is amended to read:
§ 846. FEES; AUTHORITY
* * *
(c)
Distribution to municipalities.
After
reduction for
costs
of
administration and collection, the Board shall pay local license fees on a
quarterly an annual basis to the municipality for which the fees were collected.
Sec. 12a. 7 V.S.A. § 847 is amended to read:
§ 847. APPEALS
* * *
(e) The Board may enforce a final administrative penalty by filing a civil
collection action in any Superior Court.
* * * Two-Year Employee Identification Cards * * *
Sec. 13. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:
* * *
(8) Employees. Cannabis establishments licensed by the Board shall be
assessed an annual a biennial licensing fee of $50.00 $100.00 for each
employee. Employee licenses shall be valid for two years.
(9) Products. Cannabis establishments licensed by the Board shall be
assessed an annual product licensing fee of $50.00 for every type of cannabis
and cannabis product that is sold in accordance with this chapter. The Board
may issue longer product registrations, prorated at the same cost per year, for
products it deems low-risk and shelf-stable. The products may be defined and
distinguished in readily accessible published guidance.
* * *
* * * Repeal of Integrated License Provisions * * *
Sec. 14. 7 V.S.A. § 861 is amended to read:


--- Page 142 ---
- 4693 -
§ 861. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(8) “Cannabis establishment” means a cannabis cultivator, propagation
cultivator, wholesaler, product manufacturer, retailer, or testing laboratory, or
integrated licensee licensed by the Board to engage in commercial cannabis
activity in accordance with this chapter.
* * *
(24)
“Integrated licensee” means a person licensed by the Board to
engage in the activities of a cultivator, wholesaler, product manufacturer,
retailer, and testing laboratory in accordance with this chapter. [Repealed.]
* * *
Sec. 15. 7 V.S.A. § 866 is amended to read:
§ 866. YOUTH
* * *
(c) The Board, in consultation with the Department of Health, shall adopt
rules in accordance with section 881 of this title to:
* * *
(3)
require that cannabis products sold by licensed retailers and
integrated licensees are contained in child-resistant packaging; and
(4) require that cannabis and cannabis products sold by licensed retailers
and integrated licensees are packaged with labels that clearly indicate that the
contents of the package contain cannabis and should be kept away from
persons under 21 years of age.
* * *
Sec. 16. 7 V.S.A. § 881 is amended to read:
§ 881. RULEMAKING; CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
(a) The Board shall adopt rules to implement and administer this chapter in
accordance with subdivisions (1)–(8) of this subsection.
* * *
(2)(A) Rules concerning cultivators shall include:
* * *


--- Page 143 ---
- 4694 -
(v)
labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and
integrated licensees, including health warnings developed in consultation with
the Department of Health;
* * *
(7)
Rules concerning integrated licensees shall include the provisions
provided in subdivisions (1)-(6) of this subsection and any additional
provisions the Board deems appropriate for safe regulation of integrated
licensees in accordance with this chapter. [Repealed.]
(8) Rules concerning propagators shall include:
* * *
(E) labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and integrated
licensees;
* * *
Sec. 17. 7 V.S.A. § 901 is amended to read:
§ 901. GENERAL PROVISIONS
* * *
(d)(1) There shall be seven six types of licenses available:
* * *
(E) a retailer license; and
(F) a testing laboratory license; and
(G) an integrated license.
* * *
(3)(A)
Except as provided in subdivisions (B) and (C) of this
subdivision (3), an applicant and its affiliates may obtain a maximum of one
type of each type of license as provided in subdivisions (1)(A)–(F) of this
subsection (d).
Each license shall permit only one location of the
establishment.
(B) An applicant and its affiliates that control a dispensary registered
on April 1, 2022 may obtain one integrated license provided in subdivision
(1)(G) of this subsection (d) or a maximum of one of each type of license
provided in subdivisions (1)(A)–(F) of this subsection (d). An integrated
licensee may not hold a separate cultivator, propagator, wholesaler, product
manufacturer, retailer, or testing laboratory license, and no applicant or its
affiliates that control a dispensary shall hold more than one integrated license.


--- Page 144 ---
- 4695 -
An integrated license shall permit only one location for each of the types of
activities
permitted
by
the
license:
cultivation,
propagator,
wholesale
operations, product manufacturing, retail sales, and testing. [Repealed.]
* * *
(e)
A dispensary that obtains a retailer license or an integrated license
pursuant to this chapter shall maintain the dispensary and retail operations in a
manner that protects patient and caregiver privacy in accordance with rules
adopted by the Board.
* * *
Sec. 18. 7 V.S.A. § 904 is amended to read:
§ 904. CULTIVATOR LICENSE
(a) A cultivator licensed under this chapter may:
(1) cultivate, process, package, label, transport, test, and sell cannabis to
a licensed wholesaler, product manufacturer, retailer, integrated licensee, and
dispensary;
* * *
(3) possess and sell cannabis products to a licensed wholesaler, product
manufacturer, retailer, integrated licensee, and dispensary.
* * *
Sec. 19. 7 V.S.A. § 904a is amended to read:
§ 904a. SMALL CULTIVATORS
* * *
(d)
Upon licensing, a small cultivator may sell cannabis to a licensed
dispensary at any time for sale to patients and caregivers pursuant to the
dispensary license or to the public pursuant to an integrated license, including
the time period before retail sales are permitted for licensed cannabis retailers.
Sec. 20. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:
* * *
(6) Integrated licensees. Integrated licensees shall be assessed an annual
licensing fee of $100,000.00. [Repealed.]


--- Page 145 ---
- 4696 -
* * *
Sec. 21. 7 V.S.A. § 974 is amended to read:
§ 974. RULEMAKING
(a)(1)
The Board shall adopt rules to implement and administer this
chapter. In adoption of rules, the Board shall strive for consistency with rules
adopted for cannabis establishments pursuant to chapter 33 of this title where
appropriate.
(2) Rules shall include:
* * *
(U) labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and integrated
licensees, including health warnings developed in consultation with the
Department of Health;
* * *
Sec. 22. 7 V.S.A. § 987 is amended to read:
§ 987. CANNABIS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FUND
(a) There is established the Cannabis Business Development Fund, which
shall be managed in accordance with 32 V.S.A. chapter 7, subchapter 5.
(b) The Fund shall comprise:
(1) a one-time contribution of $50,000.00 per integrated license to be
made on or before October 15, 2022; and [Repealed.]
* * *
Sec. 23. [Deleted.]
* * * Household Income; Cannabis Business Expenses Deduction * * *
Sec. 24. 32 V.S.A. § 6061 is amended to read:
§ 6061. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter unless the context requires otherwise:
* * *
(5) “Modified adjusted gross income” means “federal adjusted gross
income”:
* * *
(F) With the inclusion of any federal deduction or credit that the
claimant would have been allowed for the cultivation, testing, processing, or


--- Page 146 ---
- 4697 -
sale of cannabis or cannabis products as authorized under 7 V.S.A. chapter 33
or 37, but for 26 U.S.C. § 280E.
* * *
* * * Outdoor Cannabis Cultivation; Use Value Appraisal Program * * *
Sec. 25. 7 V.S.A. § 869 is amended to read:
§ 869. CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS; ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND
USE STANDARDS; REGULATION OF CULTIVATION
* * *
(f)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a cultivator licensed
under this chapter who initiates cultivation of cultivates cannabis outdoors on a
parcel of land as defined in rule by the Cannabis Control Board pursuant to
section 881 of this chapter shall:
* * *
(3) be eligible to enroll in the Use Value Appraisal Program under 32
V.S.A. chapter 124 for the cultivation of cannabis;
(4) be exempt under 32 V.S.A. § 9741(3), (25), and (50) from the tax on
retail sales imposed under 32 V.S.A. § 9771; and
* * *
Sec. 26. 32 V.S.A. § 3102 is amended to read:
§ 3102. CONFIDENTIALITY OF TAX RECORDS
* * *
(e) The Commissioner may, in the Commissioner’s discretion and subject
to such conditions and requirements as the Commissioner may provide,
including any confidentiality requirements of the Internal Revenue Service,
disclose a return or return information:
* * *
(25) To the Cannabis Control Board for the purposes of administering
the Cannabis Excise Tax under chapter 207 of this title, the Sales and Use Tax
under chapter 233 of this title, and the exemptions to those taxes.
* * *
* * * Cannabis Cultivator Cooperatives * * *
Sec. 27. 7 V.S.A. § 904c is added to read:
§ 904c. CANNABIS CULTIVATOR COOPERATIVE CORPORATIONS


--- Page 147 ---
- 4698 -
Licensed cannabis cultivators may form a cannabis cultivator cooperative
corporation pursuant to 11 V.S.A. chapter 7 in the same manner as other
associations or persons engaged in the production of the agricultural or
handcraft products.
* * * Commercial Cannabis Compact * * *
Sec. 27a. COMMERCIAL CANNABIS COMPACT; INTENT
The General Assembly finds that the medical and commercial cannabis
industry has grown significantly throughout the United States since Vermont
transitioned to a recreational cannabis market in 2022. The General Assembly
further finds that recent statements from federal officials, including provisions
of Executive Order 14370, 90 F.R. 60541, “Increasing Medical Marijuana and
Cannabidiol Research,” indicate a shifting federal posture on regulated
cannabis markets.
Accordingly, it is the intent of the General Assembly to
prepare for the possibility of regional or interstate cannabis markets by
authorizing the Governor to form agreements with other states that have
commercial cannabis markets.
Sec. 27b. 7 V.S.A. § 834 is added to read:
§ 834. COMMERCIAL CANNABIS COMPACT
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Agreement” means an agreement relating to commercial cannabis
authorized pursuant to this section and entered into between this State and
another state or states.
(2) “Contracting state” means a state of the United States, including a
district, commonwealth, territory, or possession subject to the legislative
authority of the United States, with which the Governor has entered into an
agreement pursuant to this section.
(3)
“Foreign licensee” means the holder of a cannabis license issued
pursuant to the laws of another State that has entered into an agreement
pursuant to this section.
(4) “Vermont license” means a cannabis license issued by the Board.
(b)
The Governor is authorized to enter into an agreement with another
state or states authorizing medical or commercial cannabis activity, or both,
between entities licensed under the laws of the contracting state and entities
operating with a Vermont license, provided that:
(1)
the commercial cannabis activities are lawful and subject to
licensure under the laws of the contracting state; and


--- Page 148 ---
- 4699 -
(2) with respect to the interstate transportation of cannabis or cannabis
products, the agreement prohibits the following:
(A)
the transportation of cannabis and cannabis products by any
means other than those authorized under the laws of the contracting state and
the regulations of the Board; and
(B) the transportation of cannabis and cannabis products through the
jurisdiction of a state, district, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the
United States that does not authorize that transportation.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other law, a foreign licensee may engage in
commercial cannabis activity with a Vermont licensee and a Vermont licensee
may engage in commercial cannabis activity with a foreign licensee, subject to
the requirements and limitations set forth in this section.
(d)
A foreign licensee shall not engage in commercial cannabis activity
within the boundaries of this State without a Vermont license, or engage in
commercial cannabis activity within a local jurisdiction without proper
authorization issued by the local jurisdiction.
(e)
An agreement shall require that the contracting state impose
requirements on foreign licensees with regard to cannabis and cannabis
products to be sold or otherwise transferred or distributed within this State that
meet or exceed the requirements applicable to Vermont licensees, including:
(1) enforceable public health and safety standards that are equivalent to
the requirements of the Board;
(2)
mandatory participation in a system administered by this State to
regulate and track cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, transportation, sale,
and destruction of cannabis and cannabis products from seed to sale;
(3) standards for testing of cannabis or cannabis products that meet or
exceed the standards applicable to testing laboratories licensed by the Board;
(4)
requirements for the packaging and labeling of cannabis and
cannabis products that meet or exceed the packaging and labeling requirements
established pursuant to Board rules;
(5)
requirements for quality assurance and inspection of cannabis or
cannabis products that meet or exceed the requirements applicable to cannabis
or cannabis products cultivated, manufactured, or sold by Vermont licensees;
(6) restrictions on marketing, labeling, and advertising within this State
by foreign licensees that meet or exceed the restrictions of Vermont licensees
pursuant to this title; and


--- Page 149 ---
- 4700 -
(7)
a process for identification of adulterated or misbranded cannabis
products, and the destruction of those products, using standards that meet or
exceed the standards and procedures adopted by the Board.
(f) An agreement shall require that the contracting state impose restrictions
upon advertising, marketing, labeling, or sale within the contracting state that
meet or exceed restrictions established pursuant to this title and the rules
adopted by the Board.
(g) An agreement shall provide for collection of all taxes applicable to the
medical or commercial cannabis activity.
(h)
An agreement shall include provisions requiring the Board and any
other appropriate regulatory authorities of the contracting state to address
public health and welfare emergencies concerning cannabis or cannabis
products that are sold or intended for sale within this State, including for
prompt recall or embargo of adulterated or misbranded cannabis products.
(i) An agreement shall include provisions requiring appropriate regulatory
authorities of each state to investigate instances of alleged noncompliance with
the commercial cannabis regulatory rules and regulations upon request by the
other state and in accordance with mutually agreed-upon procedures.  An
agreement shall include provisions requiring the contracting state to reasonably
cooperate with this State’s investigations concerning foreign licensees and
requiring the Board to reasonably cooperate with investigations by the
contracting state concerning persons or entities holding Vermont licenses.
(j)
An agreement shall include appropriate provisions reflecting Board
programs and efforts to promote the inclusion and support of individuals and
communities in the cannabis industry who are linked to populations and
neighborhoods that were negatively or disproportionately impacted by
cannabis criminalization.
(k) Prior to the execution of an agreement or amendment to an agreement,
the Governor shall:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement or amendments to the Board and the
Joint Fiscal Committee for review and comment.  The Board and Committee
shall have 60 days to review the proposed agreement or amendment and to
submit written recommendations to the Governor.  The Governor shall
consider all recommendations submitted by the Board and Committee and may
revise
the
proposed
agreement
or
amendment
to
incorporate
the
recommendations. 
If
the
Governor
does
not
incorporate
any
recommendations, the Governor shall set forth, in writing, the reasons for not
incorporating the recommendations.


--- Page 150 ---
- 4701 -
(2) Post the proposed agreement or amendment on the Governor’s and
Board’s internet websites for public comment for 30 days.  The Governor shall
consider any comments received.
(l) An agreement entered into pursuant to this section shall not take effect
unless one of the following occurs:
(1)
federal law is amended to allow for the interstate transfer of
cannabis or cannabis products between authorized commercial cannabis
businesses;
(2) federal law is enacted that specifically prohibits the expenditure of
federal funds to prevent the interstate transfer of cannabis or cannabis products
between authorized commercial cannabis businesses;
(3) the U.S. Department of Justice issues an opinion or memorandum
allowing or tolerating the interstate transfer of cannabis products between
authorized commercial cannabis businesses; or
(4) the Attorney General issues a written opinion that implementation of
agreements entered into under this section will not result in significant legal
risk to this State based on review of federal judicial decisions and
administrative action.
(m) The Board shall notify the Governor and the General Assembly upon
the occurrence of an event described in subsection (l) of this section and shall
post the notification on the Board’s website.
(n)
The Board may adopt emergency rules pursuant to 3 V.S.A. § 844
governing the procedures for admission of a foreign licensee to conduct
commercial cannabis activities within the State.
Notwithstanding 3 V.S.A.
§ 844(b), the Board’s emergency rules shall be effective for one year from the
date of adoption.
Within 90 days after adopting the emergency rules, the
Board shall report to the House Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs and the Senate Committee on Economic Development,
Housing and General Affairs concerning its recommendations for necessary
updates to Vermont’s cannabis laws and a proposal for permanent rules
governing commercial cannabis activities subject to an agreement.
Sec. 28. [Deleted.]
* * * Repeals * * *
Sec. 29. REPEALS
(a) 7 V.S.A. § 909 (integrated license) is repealed on July 1, 2026.


--- Page 151 ---
- 4702 -
(b) 7 V.S.A. § 862 (cannabis establishment chapter not applicable to hemp
or therapeutic use of cannabis) is repealed on July 1, 2026.
(c) 7 V.S.A. § 912 (cannabis event permit) is repealed on July 1, 2028.
* * * Residential Rental Agreements; Prohibiting Restrictions on Cannabis
Possession or Use * * *
Sec. 30. 9 V.S.A. § 4468b is added to read:
§ 4468b. RENTAL AGREEMENTS; CANNABIS RESTRICTIONS
PROHIBITED
A rental agreement shall not contain a provision that prohibits a tenant from
possessing cannabis or cannabis products within the rental premises or using
cannabis or cannabis products within a dwelling unit, except that a rental
agreement may prohibit the use of lighted cannabis or cannabis products
intended for inhalation within the rental premises. This section shall not apply
to any rental agreements that are required by federal law to prohibit the
possession or use of cannabis within the rental premises.
Sec. 31. 18 V.S.A. § 4230a is amended to read:
§ 4230a. CANNABIS POSSESSION BY A PERSON 21 YEARS OF AGE
OR OLDER
* * *
(b)(1)
Cannabis possessed or consumed in violation of State law is
contraband pursuant to subsection 4242(d) of this title and subject to seizure
and forfeiture.
(2) This section does not:
* * *
(E)
prohibit a landlord from banning possession or use of lighted
cannabis or cannabis products intended for inhalation in a lease agreement; or
* * *
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 32. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) This section shall take effect on passage.
(b) Notwithstanding 1 V.S.A. § 214, Sec. 24 (household income; cannabis
business expenses deduction) shall take effect retroactively on January 1, 2025,
for household income received beginning in the 2025 calendar year and shall
apply to property tax credit claims filed on and after January 1, 2026.


--- Page 152 ---
- 4703 -
(c) Sec. 10a (cannabis establishment fee schedule) shall take effect on July
1, 2027.
(d) Sec. 13 (cannabis establishment fee schedule) shall take effect on July
1, 2027.
(e) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
S. 313.
An act relating to transforming Vermont’s career technical education
system.
The House proposes to the Senate to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. FINDINGS
The General Assembly finds that:
(1)
Vermont has unmet workforce needs and skills gaps, while a
growing percentage of the decreasing school-aged population is not continuing
on to further their education.
(2) To help reverse these trends, every student should graduate with a
plan for what comes next after high school, whether that is continued
education or training, military service, or entering the workforce.
(3) A growing body of research shows that the fulfillment of this vision
requires the creation of a career navigation system that includes intentional,
coordinated, and equitable local, regional, and statewide programming from
elementary school through high school.
The system should ensure that
students
gain
awareness
of
post–high
school
career
and
education
opportunities through career exploration, personalized guidance, work-based
learning, flexible pathways programming, and credentials of value that support
successful transitions beyond high school.
(4) CTE is an essential tool to realize this vision. CTE engages students
in hands-on instruction and applied learning that builds practical skills,
develops career readiness, and provides pathways to industry-recognized
credentials and postsecondary credit. Vermont’s CTE system must ensure that
every student, regardless of geography, identity, or school, has access to high-
quality career technical education opportunities.


--- Page 153 ---
- 4704 -
Sec. 2. CAREER TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
TRANSFORMATION; LEGISLATIVE INTENT
To realize a strong statewide career preparation system, it is the intent of the
General Assembly to transform Vermont’s career technical education (CTE)
system as follows:
(1)
Provide universal access to CTE, ensuring that every student can
participate in CTE programming, including pretech and foundations courses,
by:
(A)
increasing exposure to and early awareness of CTE in middle
school and the first two years of high school;
(B) addressing barriers such as transportation, scheduling conflicts,
and awareness;
(C) providing consistency in admissions policies while allowing for
program-specific requirements related to readiness, sequencing, and safety;
and
(D) ensuring that no student may be placed on a waitlist or prevented
from accessing CTE for lack of capacity where there is a viable alternative
program that aligns with the student’s intended program of study and meets
program requirements, including sequencing and safety concerns, through the
provision of transportation, supported through a state-level funding or
coordination mechanism.
(2)
Enable flexible delivery models, expanding beyond regional
technical centers to offer multiple pathways for students to access CTE
programming and graduate with required high school courses by:
(A)
delivering programs at sending high schools or in a hybrid
format where appropriate, provided that program quality, industry alignment,
and access to necessary equipment and facilities are maintained; and
(B) utilizing shared resources and technology to improve educational
access and limit transportation needs.
(3)
Align the CTE system with workforce needs by designing and
evaluating programs based on current and emerging Vermont labor market
demands, continue robust evaluation of the system through the Comprehensive
Local Needs Assessment process, and utilize statewide research from
Vermont’s Most Promising Jobs and VT Labor Market Information to assess
student outcomes in continuing to the workforce.
(4) Create a sustainable, student-centered funding system that removes
disincentives for participation and supports program growth and innovation.


--- Page 154 ---
- 4705 -
Flexible delivery models and access must be taken into consideration to ensure
the sustainability of program delivery.
(5) Explore the viability and impact of CTE centers becoming diploma-
conferring institutions or comprehensive high schools. In situations where this
is not possible, high schools shall be required to award the credits
recommended by a CTE center.
(6) Maintain a strong adult CTE system by building robust adult and
continuing education pathways within CTE that meet Vermont’s upskilling,
reskilling, and workforce development needs while connecting seamlessly with
secondary programs and regional workforce partners.
Such a system shall
have a governance and funding model that promotes coordination, quality,
program consistency, and sustainability.
(7) Coordinate CTE governance by establishing governance approaches
that strengthen collaboration across districts, improve consistency and program
quality, and better support positive student outcomes. CTE governance should
align with the ongoing education transportation process, with the above goals
as the lens through which decisions are made.
Sec. 3. CAREER TECHNICAL EDUCATION; GUIDANCE
On or
before September
18,
2026, the Agency of
Education,
in
collaboration with the Vermont Association of Career and Technical Directors
and the Vermont Superintendents Association, shall issue guidance on the
following topics, which shall reflect the current career technical education
system as it exists on July 1, 2026, in an effort to provide clarity to the field
prior to updates to the career and technical education rules:
(1)
updates to definitions, including definitions for “CTE programs,”
“credentials,” “embedded academics,” and “satellite models”;
(2) credit standards and competency-based pathways;
(3)
work-based learning sequencing aligned with Occupational Safety
and Health Administration standards and federal hazard orders;
(4) minimum safety, space, and equipment standards;
(5) data and reporting alignment with Perkins V; and
(6) explicit allowance for differentiated regional delivery models.
Sec. 4. 16 V.S.A. § 1532 is amended to read:
§ 1532. MINIMUM STANDARDS; MEASUREMENT OF STANDARDS;
RULES


--- Page 155 ---
- 4706 -
(a) The State Board shall adopt by rule:
* * *
(b) The following shall be adopted by procedure or rule:
* * *
(c) The State Board shall review the rules and procedures adopted pursuant
to this section not less than every five years and shall update the rules and
procedures as necessary.
Sec. 5. AGENCY OF EDUCATION RECOMMENDATIONS; LICENSING
OF CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION EDUCATORS;
ENFORCEMENT INTERVENTION PATHWAY; FLEXIBLE
PATHWAYS; REPORT
On or before January 15, 2027, the Agency of Education shall submit a
written report to the House Committees on Commerce and Economic
Development and on Education and the Senate Committees on Economic
Development,
Housing
and
General
Affairs
and
on
Education,
with
recommendations for the following:
(1)
In collaboration with the Standards Board for Professional
Educators, recommendations regarding career technical education (CTE)
educator endorsement requirements that will balance the need for increased
access to CTE educators with industry expertise and experience with the need
for ensuring CTE educators are qualified to provide education in their
specialty fields,
without unintentionally creating additional
barriers or
complexity.
Such recommendations shall include both necessary statutory
changes as well as recommended changes to applicable State Board of
Education rules.
(2) A pre-enforcement intervention pathway that is responsible for:
(A) supporting interpretation and implementation of CTE rules and
statute;
(B)
providing early-stage mediation between CTE centers and
sending districts;
(C) documenting patterns of noncompliance or systemic barriers; and
(D) escalating unresolved or repeated issues for formal enforcement.
(3)
Updates to the Flexible Pathways Initiative created within the
Agency pursuant to 16 V.S.A. § 941 that alleviate statewide inconsistencies
with how flexible pathways are accessed and how personalized learning plans
are created, updated, and utilized, including:


--- Page 156 ---
- 4707 -
(A)
recommendations for a statewide framework for
career
navigation consistent with the requirements of 16 V.S.A. chapter 23,
subchapter 2, including:
(i)
grade-level
competency
standards
for
students
in
prekindergarten through grade 12 related to career exploration and planning
that are designed to ensure that each student develops the knowledge, skills,
and experiences necessary to graduate with a clear, actionable, and adaptable
plan for career and educational next steps; and
(ii)
evidence-informed educational resources, activities, and
curricula that support opportunities for awareness and exploration of and
planning for career and education pathways both in and out of the classroom
setting;
(B)
recommendations for
statewide professional
development
programming to help individuals within the public education system who have
direct contact with students build role-specific knowledge and skills necessary
to support students in developing post–high school career and education plans;
(C)
recommendations for a model career navigation policy that is
integrated within comprehensive system improvement efforts to strengthen
prekindergarten through grade 12 academic proficiency and that:
(i) establishes a framework for school districts to embed grade-
level competencies related to career exploration directly into core academic
instruction, ensuring that career-aligned learning supports the attainment of
rigorous student performance standards;
(ii) ensures that students engage in meaningful career education
exploration and planning activities that reinforce academic growth and the
real-world application of classroom learning; and
(iii) utilizes a process by which each student develops and updates
a personalized learning plan in accordance with 16 V.S.A. § 941(b)(2), serving
as a primary tool for tracking both academic proficiency and evolving career
interests; and
(D) an analysis of data collection system capabilities and gaps related
to flexible pathways, personalized learning plans, and college and career
readiness.
(4)
Recommendations for ensuring Adult Diploma Program (ADP)
participants have access to the educational programs that best serve their
needs, including career technical education, while also complying with federal
and State requirements for adult education, as well as recommendations for
how access to such educational programs shall be funded through the use of


--- Page 157 ---
- 4708 -
State funds. If federal or State law is identified as a barrier, the report shall
cite the applicable law and explain how it is a barrier to ADP participants’
access to the educational program at issue.
Sec. 6. COMPREHENSIVE HIGH SCHOOLS REDEFINED; INTENT
(a) 16 V.S.A. § 1522(14) defines a comprehensive high school as “a public
or independent school other than a career technical center that provides
secondary career technical education approved under section 1533 of this
title.” As Vermont works to transform its career technical education (CTE)
system to increase the access, quality, and opportunity of CTE programming
available to Vermont students, the concept of a comprehensive high school
could be expanded to achieve these goals.
It is the intent of the General
Assembly to move toward a model of comprehensive high schools that would
offer all opportunities available to students within the public education system,
to be defined as “a public or independent school other than a career technical
center that fully integrates the provision of career technical education with the
provision of general education in one school building or on one school
campus, with a single budget for both CTE education and general education.”
(b) Any recommendations issued to the General Assembly regarding how
to achieve regional high schools, how to achieve more comprehensive high
schools, or how to embed career technical education within secondary schools
shall consider the definition of comprehensive high school the General
Assembly intends to move toward pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, or
any other model that creates high schools that share operational costs, expand
opportunities, and improve educational equity across a broad geographical
area, to guide such recommendations.
Sec. 7. 16 V.S.A. § 1545 is amended to read:
§ 1545. CREDITS AND GRADES EARNED
(a) Grades Credits or proficiencies and grades earned in a course offered
within a CTE program approved by the State Board shall not be altered by any
public school or approved or recognized independent school in Vermont and
shall be applied by the school toward any State graduation requirements in
accordance with rules adopted by the State Board.
Any State Board rules
regarding earning of credits or proficiencies shall allow flexibility with respect
to the integration of CTE education and other academic courses.
(b)
The credits or proficiencies earned for a career technical education
program approved by the State Board shall be honored by any public or
independent school within Vermont.
If necessary to enable a student to
participate in career technical education and graduate with his or her the


--- Page 158 ---
- 4709 -
student’s class, the credits or proficiencies earned shall be applied toward any
school district or independent school graduation requirements exceeding the
minimum number of credits or proficiencies required by the State Board. The
school board of the high school from which the student wishes to graduate
shall make a determination as to whether the credits shall be applied apply
credits or proficiencies earned for a career technical education program
approved by the State Board toward graduation requirements. A decision of a
school board may be appealed to the Secretary who shall construe this section
to favor participation in career technical education.
(c)
For any student attending the Vermont Academy for Science and
Technology pursuant to subsection 4011(e) of this title, the credits or
proficiencies and grades earned shall, upon request of the student or the
student’s parent or guardian, be applied toward graduation requirements at the
Vermont high school that the student attended prior to enrolling in the
Academy.
Sec. 8. [Deleted.]
Sec. 8a. 21 V.S.A. § 471 is amended to read:
§ 471. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
* * *
(5)
“Employee” means a person who, in consideration of direct or
indirect gain or profit, has been continuously employed by the same employer
for a period of one year for an average of at least 30 hours per week or meets
the service requirement set forth in 29 C.F.R. § 825.801 (airline flight crew
employees) or 29 C.F.R. § 825.110(c)(3) (full-time teachers, as defined in 29
C.F.R. § 825.102, of an elementary or secondary school system or institution
of higher education).
* * *
Sec. 8b. 21 V.S.A. § 495d is amended to read:
§ 495d. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
* * *
(15) “Crime victim” means any of the following:
(A) a person who has obtained a relief from abuse order issued under
15 V.S.A. § 1103;


--- Page 159 ---
- 4710 -
(B)
a person who has obtained an order against stalking or sexual
assault issued under 12 V.S.A. chapter 178;
(C) a person who has obtained an order against abuse of a vulnerable
adult issued under 33 V.S.A. chapter 69; or
(D)(i)
a victim as defined in 13 V.S.A. § 5301, provided that the
victim is identified as a crime victim in an affidavit filed by a law enforcement
official with a prosecuting attorney of competent state or federal jurisdiction;
and
(ii) shall include the victim’s child, foster child, parent, spouse,
stepchild or ward of the victim who lives with the victim, or a parent of the
victim’s spouse, provided that the individual is not identified in the affidavit as
the defendant; or
(E) a person who is a survivor of domestic violence, sexual assault,
or stalking and who has supporting documentation from any one of the
following sources:
(i) a court or law enforcement or other government agency;
(ii)
a domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking assistance
program;
(iii) a legal, clerical, medical, or other professional from whom
the person has received counseling or other assistance concerning domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking; or
(iv) a self-attestation by the person describing the circumstances
supporting the person’s status as a survivor of domestic violence, sexual
assault, and stalking for which no further corroboration shall be required
unless otherwise mandated by law.
* * *
(18) “Domestic violence” has the same meaning as in 15 V.S.A. § 1151
and includes the definition of “abuse” in 15 V.S.A. § 1101.
(19) “Sexual assault” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131.
(20) “Stalking” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131.
Sec. 8c. 21 V.S.A. § 495g is amended to read:
§ 495g. PROVISION APPLICABLE TO COLLEGE PROFESSORS
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit any institution of
higher education as defined by section 1201(a) of the federal Higher Education
Act of 1965 from retiring any employee who is serving under a contract of


--- Page 160 ---
- 4711 -
unlimited tenure, who attains 70 years of age. Any employee whose tenure
contract is terminated may, in the discretion of the institution, be allowed to
continue in the employ of the institution on a nontenured basis. [Repealed.]
Sec. 8d. 21 V.S.A. § 383 is amended to read:
§ 383. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
(1) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Labor or designee.
(2) “Employee” means any individual employed or permitted to work
by an employer except:
* * *
(H) outside salespersons; and
(I)
students working during all or any part of the school year or
regular vacation periods; and
(J) elected and appointed municipal officers.
* * *
Sec. 8e. 21 V.S.A. § 495q is added to read:
§ 495q. AGREEMENTS WITH HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
(a) Any provision in a contract or agreement that creates or establishes the
terms of a partnership, employment, or any other form of professional
relationship with a health care provider regarding the health care provider’s
provision of health care services in Vermont shall be void and unenforceable if
the provision:
(1)
includes a restriction on the right of the health care provider to
provide health care services in any geographical area for any period of time
after
the
termination
of
such
partnership,
agreement,
or
professional
relationship;
(2)
limits the ability of a separating health care provider to provide
notice of the provider’s change of employment to individuals to whom the
separating provider provided direct health care services;
(3) restricts a health care provider from making disparaging statements
about another party to the contract or agreement or about another person
specified in the agreement as a third-party beneficiary of the agreement;
(4) is inconsistent with Vermont law; or


--- Page 161 ---
- 4712 -
(5) requires litigation arising from the performance of the contract or
agreement in Vermont to be conducted in another state.
(b) The notice provided in subdivision (a)(2) of this section may include
the following information:
(1) that the health care provider is continuing to practice the provider’s
profession;
(2) the health care provider’s new professional contact information; and
(3) the recipient’s right to choose a health care provider.
(c)
The provisions in subsection (a) of this section do not apply to
restrictions that limit a health care provider who contracts with a third-party
company for nonclinical business support services from opening a business
within a specific territory supported by a different third-party company
providing nonclinical services.
(d) “Health care provider” means a person licensed, certified, or authorized
by law to provide professional health care service in this State to an individual
during that individual’s medical care, treatment, or confinement.
(e)
An employer shall not discharge or in any other manner retaliate
against an employee who exercises or attempts to exercise the employee’s
rights under this section.
The provisions against retaliation in subdivision
495(a)(8) of this subchapter and the penalty and enforcement provisions of
section 495b of this subchapter shall apply to this section.
(f) This section shall apply to contracts and agreements entered into on or
after July 1, 2026.
Sec. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on passage.
Report of Committee of Conference
H. 639.
An act relating to genetic data privacy.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
The Committee of Conference to which were referred the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses upon House Bill entitled:
H. 639. An act relating to genetic data privacy.
Respectfully reports that it has met and considered the same and
recommends that the House recede from its proposal of amendment to the


--- Page 162 ---
- 4713 -
Senate proposal of amendment and that the Senate proposal of amendment be
further amended as follows:
First: In Sec. 1, 9 V.S.A. chapter 61A, in section 2421c, by striking out
subsection (c) in its entirety.
Second: By adding a new section to be Sec. 1a to read as follows:
Sec. 1a. CURE PERIOD; GENETIC DATA PRIVACY
(a)
A consumer pursuing a civil action pursuant to 9 V.S.A. § 2421c
against a direct-to-consumer genetic testing company or service provider for
an alleged violation the Genetic Information Privacy Act shall, before
initiating the civil action, send a written notice to the company or service
provider that includes as many details as possible of the alleged violation.
(b) If the company or service provider does not cure the alleged violation
within 30 days after the notice is received by the company or service provider
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or if there is a disagreement as to
whether the alleged violation has been cured, the consumer shall have the right
to initiate a civil action against the company or service provider.
Third: By adding a new section to be Sec. 1b to read as follows:
Sec. 1b. REPEAL; CURE PERIOD; GENETIC DATA PRIVACY
Sec. 1a of this act shall be repealed on June 30, 2028.
SEN. ALISON CLARKSON
SEN. RANDOLPH D. BROCK
SEN. THOMAS I. CHITTENDEN
Committee on the part of the Senate
REP. EDYE GRANING
REP. MICHAEL J. MARCOTTE
REP. KIRK WHITE
Committee on the part of the House
CONFIRMATIONS
The following appointments will be considered by the Senate, as a group,
under suspension of the Rules, as moved by the President pro tempore, for
confirmation together and without debate, by consent thereby given by the
Senate.
However, upon request of any senator, any appointment may be
singled out and acted upon separately by the Senate, with consideration given
to the report of the Committee to which the appointment was referred, and
with full debate; and further, all appointments for the positions of Secretaries


--- Page 163 ---
- 4714 -
of Agencies, Commissioners of Departments, Judges, Magistrates, and
members of the Public Utility Commission and the Cannabis Control Board,
underlined below, shall be fully and separately acted upon.
Gail Falk of Plainfield, VT – Public Member of the Board of Medical Practice
– By Senator Cummings for the Committee on Health and Welfare (May 19,
2026)
Lauren Wobby of Northfield, VT – Member, Vermont Educational and Health
Buildings Financing Agency – By Senator Cummings for the Committee on
Finance (May 26, 2026)
JFO NOTICE
Grants and Positions that have been submitted to the Joint Fiscal Committee
by the Administration, under 32 V.S.A. §5(b)(3):
JFO #3278: $690,050.00 to the Department of Public Service from the State
and Community Energy Programs, U.S. Department of Energy. Funds for a
revolving loan program (Municipal Energy Revolving Fund) to help VT
communities meet state energy goals. The funds will be managed by the
Building
and
General
Services
department
via
a
Memorandum
of
Understanding with the Department of Public Service.
[Received May 11, 2026]
 
JFO #3279: $160,000.00 land donation to the Agency of Natural Resources,
Department of Forests, Parks and Recreation from the Robert M. Burley Trust.
The land is 102-acre donation in Elmore, VT to extend the Elmore State Park..
PILOT (payment in lieu of taxes) will be $1,123.71 annually.
[Received May 11, 2026]
 
JFO #3280: $20,000.00 to the Vermont Truth and Reconciliation Commission
(VTRC) from Patricia Fontaine, private donor. Funds will hire consultants to
fulfill the mission of the VTRC in their pursuit of community-centered justice
and holistic healing.
[Received May 11, 2026]
JFO #3281: $867,972.00 to the Agency of Commerce and Community
Development, Department of Housing and Community Development from the
Department of the Interior, National Park Service. Funds to fix drainage and
foundation issues at the Theron Boyd State Historic Site and to prepare a full
historic structure report. A State match of $27,750.00 is required for this grant
and is covered by the major maintenance funds allocated to ACCD, Historic


--- Page 164 ---
- 4715 -
Preservation Division in the State Capital Construction Bill for fiscal year
2028.
[Received May 11, 2026]
