STATE: Vermont
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/Documents/2026/Docs/JOURNAL/hj260527.pdf?20260527070004
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/33/019/01999

--- Page 1 ---
4948
Journal of the House
________________
Wednesday, May 27, 2026
At ten o'clock in the forenoon, the Speaker called the House to order.
Devotional Exercises
A moment of silence was observed in lieu of a devotional.
Second Reading; Proposal of Amendment Agreed to; Third Reading
Ordered; Rules Suspended, All Remaining Stages of Passage;
Third Reading; Bill Passed in Concurrence with Proposal of Amendment;
Rules Suspended, Messaged to the Senate Forthwith
S. 313
Rep. Marcotte of Coventry, for the Committee on Commerce and
Economic Development, to which had been referred Senate bill, entitled
An act relating to transforming Vermont’s career technical education system
Reported in favor of its passage in concurrence with proposal of
amendment by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:
Sec. 1. FINDINGS
The General Assembly finds that:
(1)
Vermont has unmet workforce needs and skills gaps, while a
growing percentage of the decreasing school-aged population is not continuing
on to further their education.
(2) To help reverse these trends, every student should graduate with a
plan for what comes next after high school, whether that is continued
education or training, military service, or entering the workforce.
(3) A growing body of research shows that the fulfillment of this vision
requires the creation of a career navigation system that includes intentional,
coordinated, and equitable local, regional, and statewide programming from
elementary school through high school.
The system should ensure that
students
gain
awareness
of
post–high
school
career
and
education
opportunities through career exploration, personalized guidance, work-based
learning, flexible pathways programming, and credentials of value that support
successful transitions beyond high school.


--- Page 2 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4949
(4) CTE is an essential tool to realize this vision. CTE engages students
in hands-on instruction and applied learning that builds practical skills,
develops career readiness, and provides pathways to industry-recognized
credentials and postsecondary credit. Vermont’s CTE system must ensure that
every student, regardless of geography, identity, or school, has access to high-
quality career technical education opportunities.
Sec. 2. CAREER TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
TRANSFORMATION; LEGISLATIVE INTENT
To realize a strong statewide career preparation system, it is the intent of the
General Assembly to transform Vermont’s career technical education (CTE)
system as follows:
(1)
Provide universal access to CTE, ensuring that every student can
participate in CTE programming, including pretech and foundations courses,
by:
(A)
increasing exposure to and early awareness of CTE in middle
school and the first two years of high school;
(B) addressing barriers such as transportation, scheduling conflicts,
and awareness;
(C) providing consistency in admissions policies while allowing for
program-specific requirements related to readiness, sequencing, and safety;
and
(D) ensuring that no student may be placed on a waitlist or prevented
from accessing CTE for lack of capacity where there is a viable alternative
program that aligns with the student’s intended program of study and meets
program requirements, including sequencing and safety concerns, through the
provision of transportation, supported through a state-level funding or
coordination mechanism.
(2)
Enable flexible delivery models, expanding beyond regional
technical centers to offer multiple pathways for students to access CTE
programming and graduate with required high school courses by:
(A)
delivering programs at sending high schools or in a hybrid
format where appropriate, provided that program quality, industry alignment,
and access to necessary equipment and facilities are maintained; and
(B) utilizing shared resources and technology to improve educational
access and limit transportation needs.


--- Page 3 ---
4950
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(3)
Align the CTE system with workforce needs by designing and
evaluating programs based on current and emerging Vermont labor market
demands, continue robust evaluation of the system through the Comprehensive
Local Needs Assessment process, and utilize statewide research from
Vermont’s Most Promising Jobs and VT Labor Market Information to assess
student outcomes in continuing to the workforce.
(4) Create a sustainable, student-centered funding system that removes
disincentives for participation and supports program growth and innovation.
Flexible delivery models and access must be taken into consideration to ensure
the sustainability of program delivery.
(5) Explore the viability and impact of CTE centers becoming diploma-
conferring institutions or comprehensive high schools. In situations where this
is not possible, high schools shall be required to award the credits
recommended by a CTE center.
(6) Maintain a strong adult CTE system by building robust adult and
continuing education pathways within CTE that meet Vermont’s upskilling,
reskilling, and workforce development needs while connecting seamlessly with
secondary programs and regional workforce partners.
Such a system shall
have a governance and funding model that promotes coordination, quality,
program consistency, and sustainability.
(7) Coordinate CTE governance by establishing governance approaches
that strengthen collaboration across districts, improve consistency and program
quality, and better support positive student outcomes. CTE governance should
align with the ongoing education transportation process, with the above goals
as the lens through which decisions are made.
Sec. 3. CAREER TECHNICAL EDUCATION; GUIDANCE
On or
before September
18,
2026, the Agency of
Education,
in
collaboration with the Vermont Association of Career and Technical Directors
and the Vermont Superintendents Association, shall issue guidance on the
following topics, which shall reflect the current career technical education
system as it exists on July 1, 2026, in an effort to provide clarity to the field
prior to updates to the career and technical education rules:
(1)
updates to definitions, including definitions for “CTE programs,”
“credentials,” “embedded academics,” and “satellite models”;
(2) credit standards and competency-based pathways;
(3)
work-based learning sequencing aligned with Occupational Safety
and Health Administration standards and federal hazard orders;
(4) minimum safety, space, and equipment standards;


--- Page 4 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4951
(5) data and reporting alignment with Perkins V; and
(6) explicit allowance for differentiated regional delivery models.
Sec. 4. 16 V.S.A. § 1532 is amended to read:
§ 1532. MINIMUM STANDARDS; MEASUREMENT OF STANDARDS;
RULES
(a) The State Board shall adopt by rule:
* * *
(b) The following shall be adopted by procedure or rule:
* * *
(c) The State Board shall review the rules and procedures adopted pursuant
to this section not less than every five years and shall update the rules and
procedures as necessary.
Sec. 5. AGENCY OF EDUCATION RECOMMENDATIONS; LICENSING
OF CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION EDUCATORS;
ENFORCEMENT INTERVENTION PATHWAY; FLEXIBLE
PATHWAYS; REPORT
On or before January 15, 2027, the Agency of Education shall submit a
written report to the House Committees on Commerce and Economic
Development and on Education and the Senate Committees on Economic
Development,
Housing
and
General
Affairs
and
on
Education,
with
recommendations for the following:
(1)
In collaboration with the Standards Board for Professional
Educators, recommendations regarding career technical education (CTE)
educator endorsement requirements that will balance the need for increased
access to CTE educators with industry expertise and experience with the need
for ensuring CTE educators are qualified to provide education in their
specialty fields,
without unintentionally creating additional
barriers or
complexity.
Such recommendations shall include both necessary statutory
changes as well as recommended changes to applicable State Board of
Education rules.
(2) A pre-enforcement intervention pathway that is responsible for:
(A) supporting interpretation and implementation of CTE rules and
statute;


--- Page 5 ---
4952
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(B)
providing early-state mediation between CTE centers and
sending districts;
(C) documenting patterns of noncompliance or systemic barriers; and
(D) escalating unresolved or repeated issues for formal enforcement.
(3)
Updates to the Flexible Pathways Initiative created within the
Agency pursuant to 16 V.S.A. § 941 that alleviate statewide inconsistencies
with how flexible pathways are accessed and how personalized learning plans
are created, updated, and utilized, including:
(A)
recommendations for a statewide framework for
career
navigation consistent with the requirements of 16 V.S.A. chapter 23,
subchapter 2, including:
(i)
grade-level
competency
standards
for
students
in
prekindergarten through grade 12 related to career exploration and planning
that are designed to ensure that each student develops the knowledge, skills,
and experiences necessary to graduate with a clear, actionable, and adaptable
plan for career and educational next steps; and
(ii)
evidence-informed educational resources, activities, and
curricula that support opportunities for awareness and exploration of and
planning for career and education pathways both in and out of the classroom
setting;
(B)
recommendations for
statewide professional
development
programming to help individuals within the public education system who have
direct contact with students build role-specific knowledge and skills necessary
to support students in developing post–high school career and education plans;
(C)
recommendations for a model career navigation policy that is
integrated within comprehensive system improvement efforts to strengthen
prekindergarten through grade 12 academic proficiency and that:
(i) establishes a framework for school districts to embed grade-
level competencies related to career exploration directly into core academic
instruction, ensuring that career-aligned learning supports the attainment of
rigorous student performance standards;
(ii) ensures that students engage in meaningful career education
exploration and planning activities that reinforce academic growth and the
real-world application of classroom learning; and


--- Page 6 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4953
(iii) utilizes a process by which each student develops and updates
a personalized learning plan in accordance with 16 V.S.A. § 941(b)(2), serving
as a primary tool for tracking both academic proficiency and evolving career
interests; and
(D) an analysis of data collection system capabilities and gaps related
to flexible pathways, personalized learning plans, and college and career
readiness.
Sec. 6. COMPREHENSIVE HIGH SCHOOLS REDEFINED; INTENT
(a) 16 V.S.A. § 1522(14) defines a comprehensive high school as “a public
or independent school other than a career technical center that provides
secondary career technical education approved under section 1533 of this
title.” As Vermont works to transform its career technical education (CTE)
system to increase the access, quality, and opportunity of CTE programming
available to Vermont students, the concept of a comprehensive high school
could be expanded to achieve these goals.
It is the intent of the General
Assembly to move toward a model of comprehensive high schools that would
offer all opportunities available to students within the public education system,
to be defined as “a public or independent school other than a career technical
center that fully integrates the provision of career technical education with the
provision of general education in one school building or on one school
campus, with a single budget for both CTE education and general education.”
(b) Any recommendations issued to the General Assembly regarding how
to achieve regional high schools, how to achieve more comprehensive high
schools, or how to embed career technical education within secondary schools
shall consider the definition of comprehensive high school the General
Assembly intends to move toward pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, or
any other model that creates high schools that share operational costs, expand
opportunities, and improve educational equity across a broad geographical
area, to guide such recommendations.
Sec. 7. 16 V.S.A. § 1545 is amended to read:
§ 1545. CREDITS AND GRADES EARNED
(a) Grades Credits or proficiencies and grades earned in a course offered
within a CTE program approved by the State Board shall not be altered by any
public school or approved or recognized independent school in Vermont and
shall be applied by the school toward any State graduation requirements in
accordance with rules adopted by the State Board.
Any State Board rules
regarding earning of credits or proficiencies shall allow flexibility with respect
to the integration of CTE education and other academic courses.


--- Page 7 ---
4954
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(b)
The credits or proficiencies earned for a career technical education
program approved by the State Board shall be honored by any public or
independent school within Vermont.
If necessary to enable a student to
participate in career technical education and graduate with his or her the
student’s class, the credits or proficiencies earned shall be applied toward any
school district or independent school graduation requirements exceeding the
minimum number of credits or proficiencies required by the State Board. The
school board of the high school from which the student wishes to graduate
shall make a determination as to whether the credits shall be applied apply
credits or proficiencies earned for a career technical education program
approved by the State Board toward graduation requirements. A decision of a
school board may be appealed to the Secretary who shall construe this section
to favor participation in career technical education.
(c)
For any student attending the Vermont Academy for Science and
Technology pursuant to subsection 4011(e) of this title, the credits or
proficiencies and grades earned shall, upon request of the student or the
student’s parent or guardian, be applied toward graduation requirements at the
Vermont high school that the student attended prior to enrolling in the
Academy.
Sec. 8. CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION GOVERNANCE
LEGISLATIVE WORKING GROUP; DRAFT LEGISLATION
(a)
Creation.
There is created the Career and Technical Education
Governance Legislative Working Group to study and make recommendations
to transform Vermont’s career and technical education governance structure.
(b) Membership. The Working Group shall be composed of the following
members:
(1) four current members of the House of Representatives, not all from
the same political party, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House as
follows:
(A) one member of the House Committee on Appropriations;
(B)
one member of the House Committee on Commerce and
Economic Development;
(C) one member of the House Committee on Education; and
(D) one member of the House Committee on Ways and Means;
(2) four current members of the Senate, not all from the same political
party, who shall be appointed by the Committee on Committees as follows:
(A) one member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations;


--- Page 8 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4955
(B)
one
member
of
the
Senate
Committee
on
Economic
Development, Housing and General Affairs;
(C) one member of the Senate Committee on Education; and
(D) one member of the Senate Committee on Finance.
(c)
Powers and duties.
The Working Group, in consultation with the
Agency of Education, Vermont Association of Career and Technical Directors,
and any other relevant stakeholders, shall study and make recommendations
regarding how to incorporate Vermont’s career technical education (CTE)
governance system within the larger education governance system.
The
recommendations shall include:
(1)
a transition plan that ensures no disruption to safety, access, or
programming, including recommendations for whether the transition shall
maintain the four separate CTE governance models while working towards one
education governance system, or whether some other governance model or
models should be used during the transition to one governance system and, if
so, the transition costs and sources of funding associated with such a transition;
(2)
a timeline to move from the current public education governance
and CTE systems to one system that incorporates governance for both general
education and CTE;
(3) recommendations for how State aid to school construction may be
leveraged to achieve one education governance system;
(4)
recommendations for locations of comprehensive high schools, as
that term is defined in 16 V.S.A. § 1522(14);
(5) recommendations for the funding of adult education and secondary
credential
program
participants’
access
to
secondary
career
technical
education, including the source of funding and the flow of funds;
(6)
recommendations for how to fund and integrate adult career
technical education into the education system in a way that allows for robust
programmatic offerings open to all adult learners without a high school
diploma;
(7) recommendations for ensuring that students will not be placed on a
waitlist or prevented from accessing CTE due to lack of capacity where there
is a viable alternative program that aligns with the student’s intended program
of study and meets program requirements, including sequencing and safety
concerns, through the provision of coordinated transportation; and


--- Page 9 ---
4956
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(8) recommendations for ensuring Adult Diploma Program participants
have access to the educational programs that best serve their needs, including
career technical education, while also complying with federal and State
requirements for adult education, as well as recommendations for how access
to such educational programs shall be funded.
(d)
Assistance.
For purposes of scheduling meetings,
preparing
recommended legislation, and fiscal analysis, the Working Group shall have
the assistance of the Office of Legislative Operations, the Office of Legislative
Counsel, and the Joint Fiscal Office.
(e) Proposed legislation. On or before December 15, 2026, the Working
Group shall submit its findings and recommendations in the form of proposed
legislation to the General Assembly.
(f) Meetings.
(1) The Office of Legislative Counsel shall call the first meeting of the
Working Group to occur on or before August 15, 2026.
(2) The Working Group shall select co-chairs from among its members
at the first meeting, one a member of the House and the other a member of the
Senate.
(3) A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum.
(4) The Working Group shall cease to exist on January 15, 2027.
(g) Compensation and reimbursement. For attendance at meetings during
adjournment of the General Assembly, a legislative member of the Working
Group serving in the member’s capacity as a legislator shall be entitled to per
diem compensation and reimbursement of expenses pursuant to 2 V.S.A. § 23
for not more than six meetings. These payments shall be made from monies
appropriated to the General Assembly.
Sec. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on passage.
Rep. Conlon of Cornwall, for the Committee on Education, recommended
that
the
bill
pass
in
concurrence
with
the
proposal
of
amendment
recommended by the Committee on Commerce and Economic Development
and when further amended as follows:
First: In Sec. 5, Agency of Education recommendations; licensing of career
and technical education educators; enforcement intervention pathway; flexible
pathways; report, in subdivision (2)(B), following “providing early-” by
striking out the word “state” and inserting in lieu thereof the word “stage”


--- Page 10 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4957
Second:
In Sec. 5, Agency of Education recommendations; licensing of
career and technical education educators; enforcement intervention pathway;
flexible pathways; report, by adding a new subdivision to be subdivision (4) to
read as follows:
(4)
Recommendations for ensuring Adult Diploma Program (ADP)
participants have access to the educational programs that best serve their
needs, including career technical education, while also complying with federal
and State requirements for adult education, as well as recommendations for
how access to such educational programs shall be funded through the use of
State funds. If federal or State law is identified as a barrier, the report shall
cite the applicable law and explain how it is a barrier to ADP participants’
access to the educational program at issue.
Third: By striking out Sec. 8 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a
new Sec. 8 to read as follows:
Sec. 8. [Deleted.]
Rep. Kascenska of Burke, for the Committee on Appropriations,
recommended that the bill pass in concurrence with the proposal of
amendment recommended by the Committee on Commerce and Economic
Development, when further amended as recommended by the Committee on
Education.
The bill, having appeared on the Notice Calendar was taken up, read the
second time, and the report of the Committee on Commerce and Economic
Development was amended as recommended by the Committee on Education.
Pending the question, Shall the House propose to the Senate to amend the
bill as recommended by the Committee on Commerce and Economic
Development, as amended?, Reps. Bartley of Fairfax, Krasnow of South
Burlington, and Mihaly of Calais moved to further amend the report of the
Committee on Commerce and Economic Development as follows:
First: By adding a new section to be Sec. 8a to read as follows:
Sec. 8a. 21 V.S.A. § 471 is amended to read:
§ 471. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
* * *
(5)
“Employee” means a person who, in consideration of direct or
indirect gain or profit, has been continuously employed by the same employer
for a period of one year for an average of at least 30 hours per week or meets
the service requirement set forth in 29 C.F.R. § 825.801 (airline flight crew


--- Page 11 ---
4958
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
employees) or 29 C.F.R. § 825.110(c)(3) (full-time teachers, as defined in 29
C.F.R. § 825.102, of an elementary or secondary school system or institution
of higher education).
* * *
Second: By adding a new section to be Sec. 8b to read as follows:
Sec. 8b. 21 V.S.A. § 495d is amended to read:
§ 495d. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
* * *
(15) “Crime victim” means any of the following:
(A) a person who has obtained a relief from abuse order issued under
15 V.S.A. § 1103;
(B)
a person who has obtained an order against stalking or sexual
assault issued under 12 V.S.A. chapter 178;
(C) a person who has obtained an order against abuse of a vulnerable
adult issued under 33 V.S.A. chapter 69; or
(D)(i)
a victim as defined in 13 V.S.A. § 5301, provided that the
victim is identified as a crime victim in an affidavit filed by a law enforcement
official with a prosecuting attorney of competent state or federal jurisdiction;
and
(ii) shall include the victim’s child, foster child, parent, spouse,
stepchild or ward of the victim who lives with the victim, or a parent of the
victim’s spouse, provided that the individual is not identified in the affidavit as
the defendant; or
(E) a person who is a survivor of domestic violence, sexual assault,
or stalking and who has supporting documentation from any one of the
following sources:
(i) a court or law enforcement or other government agency;
(ii)
a domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking assistance
program;
(iii) a legal, clerical, medical, or other professional from whom
the person has received counseling or other assistance concerning domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking; or


--- Page 12 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4959
(iv) a self-attestation by the person describing the circumstances
supporting the person’s status as a survivor of domestic violence, sexual
assault, and stalking for which no further corroboration shall be required
unless otherwise mandated by law.
* * *
(18) “Domestic violence” has the same meaning as in 15 V.S.A. § 1151
and includes the definition of “abuse” in 15 V.S.A. § 1101.
(19) “Sexual assault” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131.
(20) “Stalking” has the same meaning as in 12 V.S.A. § 5131.
Third: By adding a new section to be Sec. 8c to read as follows:
Sec. 8c. 21 V.S.A. § 495g is amended to read:
§ 495g. PROVISION APPLICABLE TO COLLEGE PROFESSORS
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit any institution of
higher education as defined by section 1201(a) of the federal Higher Education
Act of 1965 from retiring any employee who is serving under a contract of
unlimited tenure, who attains 70 years of age. Any employee whose tenure
contract is terminated may, in the discretion of the institution, be allowed to
continue in the employ of the institution on a nontenured basis. [Repealed.]
Fourth: By adding a new section to be Sec. 8d to read as follows:
Sec. 8d. 21 V.S.A. § 383 is amended to read:
§ 383. DEFINITIONS
As used in this subchapter:
(1) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Labor or designee.
(2) “Employee” means any individual employed or permitted to work
by an employer except:
* * *
(H) outside salespersons; and
(I)
students working during all or any part of the school year or
regular vacation periods; and
(J) elected and appointed municipal officers.
* * *


--- Page 13 ---
4960
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Fifth: By adding a new section to be Sec. 8e to read as follows:
Sec. 8e. 21 V.S.A. § 495q is added to read:
§ 495q. AGREEMENTS WITH HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
(a) Any provision in a contract or agreement that creates or establishes the
terms of a partnership, employment, or any other form of professional
relationship with a health care provider regarding the health care provider’s
provision of health care services in Vermont shall be void and unenforceable if
the provision:
(1)
includes a restriction on the right of the health care provider to
provide health care services in any geographical area for any period of time
after
the
termination
of
such
partnership,
agreement,
or
professional
relationship;
(2)
limits the ability of a separating health care provider to provide
notice of the provider’s change of employment to individuals to whom the
separating provider provided direct health care services;
(3) restricts a health care provider from making disparaging statements
about another party to the contract or agreement or about another person
specified in the agreement as a third-party beneficiary of the agreement;
(4) is inconsistent with Vermont law; or
(5) requires litigation arising from the performance of the contract or
agreement in Vermont to be conducted in another state.
(b) The notice provided in subdivision (a)(2) of this section may include
the following information:
(1) that the health care provider is continuing to practice the provider’s
profession;
(2) the health care provider’s new professional contact information; and
(3) the recipient’s right to choose a health care provider.
(c)
The provisions in subsection (a) of this section do not apply to
restrictions that limit a health care provider who contracts with a third-party
company for nonclinical business support services from opening a business
within a specific territory supported by a different third-party company
providing nonclinical services.
(d) “Health care provider” means a person licensed, certified, or authorized
by law to provide professional health care service in this State to an individual
during that individual’s medical care, treatment, or confinement.


--- Page 14 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4961
(e)
An employer shall not discharge or in any other manner retaliate
against an employee who exercises or attempts to exercise the employee’s
rights under this section.
The provisions against retaliation in subdivision
495(a)(8) of this subchapter and the penalty and enforcement provisions of
section 495b of this subchapter shall apply to this section.
(f) This section shall apply to contracts and agreements entered into on or
after July 1, 2026.
Which was agreed to.
Thereupon, the report of the Committee on
Commerce and Economic Development, as amended, was agreed to and third
reading ordered.
On motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney, the rules were suspended and the
bill placed in all remaining stages of passage. The bill was read the third time
and passed in concurrence with proposal of amendment.
Thereupon, on motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney, the rules were
suspended and the bill was ordered messaged to the Senate forthwith.
Recess
At ten o'clock and thirty-six minutes in the forenoon, the Speaker declared a
recess until the fall of the gavel.
Message from the Senate No. 68
A message was received from the Senate by Ms. Gradel, its Assistant
Secretary, as follows:
Madam Speaker:
I am directed to inform the House that:
Pursuant to the request of the House for a Committee of Conference on the
disagreeing votes of the two Houses on House bill entitled:
H. 955. An act relating to next steps in transforming Vermont’s education
system.
The President announced the appointment as members of such Committee
on the part of the Senate:
Senator Bongartz
Senator Hardy
Senator Mattos


--- Page 15 ---
4962
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Called to Order
At one o'clock and seventeen minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker called
the House to order.
Second Reading; Proposal of Amendment Agreed to; Third Reading
Ordered; Rules Suspended, All Remaining Stages of Passage;
Third Reading, Bill Passed in Concurrence with Proposal of Amendment;
Rules Suspended, Messaged to the Senate Forthwith
S. 278
Rep.
Boyden
of
Cambridge,
for
the
Committee
on
Government
Operations and Military Affairs, to which had been referred Senate bill,
entitled
An act relating to cannabis
Reported in favor of its passage in concurrence with proposal of
amendment by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:
* * * Packaging Limit * * *
Sec. 1. 7 V.S.A. § 881 is amended to read:
§ 881. RULEMAKING; CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
(a) The Board shall adopt rules to implement and administer this chapter in
accordance with subdivisions (1)–(8) of this subsection.
* * *
(3) Rules concerning product manufacturers shall include:
(A) requirements that a single package of a cannabis product shall
not contain more than 100 200 milligrams of THC, except in the case of:
* * *
* * * Transaction Limit * * *
Sec. 2. 7 V.S.A. § 907 is amended to read:
§ 907. RETAILER LICENSE
* * *
(b) In a single transaction, a retailer may provide one ounce two ounces of
cannabis or the equivalent in cannabis products, or a combination thereof, to a
person 21 years of age or older upon verification of a valid government-issued
photograph identification card.


--- Page 16 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4963
* * *
Sec. 3. 18 V.S.A. § 4230 is amended to read:
§ 4230. CANNABIS
(a) Possession and cultivation.
(1) No person shall knowingly and unlawfully possess more than one
ounce two ounces of cannabis or more than five 10 grams of hashish or
cultivate more than two mature cannabis plants or four immature cannabis
plants. A person who violates this subdivision shall be assessed a civil penalty
as follows:
* * *
(2)(A)
No person shall knowingly and unlawfully possess more than
two ounces or more of cannabis or ten 10 grams or more of hashish or more
than three mature cannabis plants or six immature cannabis plants. For a first
offense under this subdivision (2), a person shall be provided the opportunity
to participate in the Court Diversion Program unless the prosecutor states on
the record why a referral to the Court Diversion Program would not serve the
ends of justice. A person convicted of a first offense under this subdivision
shall be imprisoned not more than six months or fined not more than $500.00,
or both.
* * *
Sec. 4. 18 V.S.A. § 4230a is amended to read:
§ 4230a. CANNABIS POSSESSION BY A PERSON 21 YEARS OF AGE
OR OLDER
(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person 21 years of
age or older who possesses one ounce two ounces or less of cannabis or five 10
grams or less of hashish and two mature cannabis plants or fewer or four
immature cannabis plants or fewer or who possesses paraphernalia for
cannabis use shall not be penalized or sanctioned in any manner by the State or
any of its political subdivisions or denied any right or privilege under State
law. The one-ounce two-ounce limit of cannabis or five 10 grams of hashish
that may be possessed by a person 21 years of age or older shall not include
cannabis cultivated, harvested, and stored in accordance with section 4230e of
this title.
* * *


--- Page 17 ---
4964
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
* * * Event Permit; Pilot Program * * *
Sec. 5. 7 V.S.A. § 912 is added to read:
§ 912. EVENT PERMIT
(a) Authorization. The Board may grant event permits to licensed cannabis
establishments in good standing. The holder of an event permit is authorized
to oversee and administer a commercial event pursuant to this section and
procedures adopted by the Board. Notwithstanding section 833 of this title,
persons 21 years of age or older may consume cannabis or cannabis products
at an event authorized pursuant to this section.
(b) Eligibility. A licensed cannabis establishment is eligible to apply for an
event permit, provided that the establishment submits a fee and application
demonstrating to the Board’s satisfaction:
(1) that the establishment has received written approval from the local
cannabis control commission created pursuant to 7 V.S.A. § 863, or the
municipal legislative body if no local cannabis control commission exists,
which may include conditions and limitations appropriate to protect the public,
manage traffic, and abate nuisance;
(2) a security plan to ensure that intoxicated persons or persons under 21
years of age cannot access the space subject to the permit, that the premises are
secured from diversion or inversion, and that the premises lawfully may be
used for the purpose intended;
(3) a product sale plan that describes quantities and types of cannabis
and cannabis products that will be offered for sale and how the cannabis will
be transported, monitored, secured, displayed, and sold in conformity with
State law and Board rule;
(4)
capacity to administer and enforce the required plans, and
confirmation that the applicant has secured the services of a county law
enforcement agency or private security provider licensed pursuant to 26 V.S.A.
chapter 59, if required by the Board;
(5) proof of commercially reasonable insurance for the proposed event;
and
(6) compliance with any other health and safety requirements that the
Board may prescribe for the particular event or event location, including limits
on attendees or types of products that may be consumed at the event site.
(c) Restrictions. Annually, the Board shall issue not more than five permits
for public events and five permits for private events. An event permit shall be
valid for a single event not to exceed 24 hours held at a single access-


--- Page 18 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4965
controlled location. An event permit shall not be issued for a location at which
alcoholic beverages are sold or furnished for on-premises consumption.
A
cannabis retailer that holds an event permit shall not conduct sales at the
licensed retail location and the permitted event contemporaneously, except for
sales conducted from a permitted event location that is contiguous with the
licensed retail location.
The holder of an event permit shall sell only
registered adult-use cannabis and cannabis products at the event.
(d)
Noncompliance; penalties.
Deviation from security and sales plans,
product tracking and taxation requirements, or permit terms shall be a
violation subject to adverse licensing action consistent with Board rules.
(e)
Fee.
Cannabis establishments shall be assessed a fee of $500.00 to
apply for an event permit, of which 50 percent shall be distributed to the host
municipality and 50 percent shall be deposited in the Cannabis Regulation
Fund.
(f)
Procedures.
The Board shall adopt procedures pursuant to 3 V.S.A.
§ 835 to govern the event permits issued pursuant to this section, including
application procedures and associated forms, the permittee selection process,
security requirements, and event site restrictions. For the permittee selection
procedures, the Board shall include a requirement that permits are issued
equitably among cannabis establishment license categories.
(1) For each procedure proposed to be adopted or amended pursuant to
this section, the Board shall publish the proposed procedure on the Board’s
website and hold not fewer than two public hearings at which members of the
public may seek additional information or submit oral or written comments
concerning the proposed procedure.
(2) The Board shall not be required to initiate rulemaking pursuant to
3 V.S.A. § 831(c) in relation to a procedure adopted pursuant to this section.
A procedure adopted pursuant to this section shall have the force of law and be
binding on all persons who apply for and hold an event permit pursuant to this
section.
Sec. 6. [Deleted.]
Sec. 7. 32 V.S.A. § 7902 is amended to read:
§ 7902. CANNABIS EXCISE TAX
* * *
(b) The tax imposed by this section shall be paid by the purchaser to the
retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit.
Each retailer or
integrated licensee permit holder shall collect from the purchaser the full
amount of the tax payable on each taxable sale.


--- Page 19 ---
4966
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
* * *
Sec. 8. 32 V.S.A. § 7904 is amended to read:
§ 7904. RETURNS; RECORDS
(a) Any retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit required to
collect the tax imposed by this chapter shall, on or before the 25th day of every
month, return to the Department of Taxes, under oath of a person with legal
authority to bind the retailer or integrated licensee permit holder, a statement
containing its name and place of business, the total amount of sales subject to
the cannabis excise tax made in the preceding month, and any information
required by the Department of Taxes, along with the total tax due. Retailers
and integrated licensees permit holders shall not remit the tax collected to the
Department of Taxes in cash absent the issuance of a waiver by the
Commissioner of Taxes, and the Commissioner may require that returns be
submitted electronically.
(b) Every retailer and integrated licensee permit holder shall maintain, for
not less than three years, accurate records showing all transactions subject to
tax liability under this chapter. The records are subject to inspection by the
Department of Taxes at all reasonable times during normal business hours.
Sec. 9. 32 V.S.A. § 7906 is amended to read:
§ 7906. LICENSE
(a) Any retailer or integrated licensee holder of an event permit required to
collect tax imposed by this chapter must apply for and receive a cannabis retail
tax license from the Commissioner for each place of business within the State
where he or she the retailer or permit holder sells cannabis or cannabis
products prior to commencing business.
The Commissioner shall issue
without charge a license, or licenses, empowering the retailer or integrated
licensee permit holder to collect the cannabis excise tax, provided that a
retailer’s or integrated licensee’s permit holder’s application is properly
submitted and the retailer or integrated licensee permit holder is otherwise in
compliance with applicable laws, rules, and provisions.
* * *
Sec. 10. CANNABIS CONTROL BOARD; RULES AND REPORT
(a) On or before July 1, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall initiate
rulemaking pursuant to 3 V.S.A. chapter 25 to adopt rules governing the event
permit established in Sec. 5 of this act.


--- Page 20 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4967
(b) On or before November 15, 2027, the Cannabis Control Board shall
submit a written report to the House Committee on Government Operations
and Military Affairs and the Senate Committee on Economic Development,
Housing and General Affairs concerning the event permit established in Sec. 5
of this act.
The report shall include a concise assessment of the benefits,
challenges, and administrative viability of the event permit program.
The
Board may recommend best practices for security, inventory tracking, tax
enforcement, permit administration, local government coordination, and
optimizing market access for small cultivators. The Board shall recommend
updates to the statute governing event permits, including whether the statute
should be repealed on the date set by this act.
* * * Outdoor Cultivator Fees * * *
Sec. 10a. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:
(1) Cultivators.
(A) Outdoor cultivators.
(i) Outdoor cultivator tier 1. Outdoor cultivators with up to 1,000
square feet of plant canopy or fewer than 125 cannabis plants in an outdoor
cultivation space shall be assessed an annual licensing fee of $750.00 $375.00.
(ii)
Outdoor cultivator tier 2.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
2,500 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $1,875.00 $925.00.
(iii)
Outdoor cultivator tier 3.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
5,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $4,000.00 $2,000.00.
(iv)
Outdoor cultivator tier 4.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
10,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $8,000.00 $4,000.00.
(v)
Outdoor cultivator tier 5.
Outdoor cultivators with up to
20,000 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $18,000.00 $9,000.00.
(vi) Outdoor cultivator tier 6. Outdoor cultivators with up to
37,500 square feet of plant canopy in an outdoor cultivation space shall be
assessed an annual licensing fee of $34,000.00.


--- Page 21 ---
4968
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
* * *
* * * Municipal Authority * * *
Sec. 11. 7 V.S.A. § 863 is amended to read:
§ 863. REGULATION BY LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(a)(1)
Prior to a cannabis retailer or the retail portion of an integrated
licensee operating within a municipality, the municipality shall affirmatively
permit the operation of such cannabis establishments by majority vote of those
present and voting by Australian ballot at an annual or special meeting warned
for that purpose. A municipality may place retailers or integrated licensees, or
both, on the ballot for approval. A proposal to hold a vote pursuant to this
subsection may be made by the legislative body of the municipality or by
petition of five percent of the voters of the municipality.
(2)
A vote to permit the operation of a licensed cannabis retailer or
integrated licensee within the municipality shall remain in effect until
rescinded by majority vote of those present and voting by Australian ballot at a
subsequent annual or special meeting warned for that purpose. A rescission of
the permission to operate a licensed cannabis retailer or integrated licensee
within the municipality under this subdivision shall not apply to a licensed
cannabis retailer or integrated licensee that is operating within the municipality
at the time of the vote.
(b)(1) A municipality that hosts any cannabis establishment may establish a
cannabis control commission composed of commissioners who may be
members of the municipal legislative body.
(2)
The local cannabis control commission may issue and administer
local control licenses under this subsection for cannabis establishments within
the municipality but shall not assess a fee for a local control license issued to a
cannabis establishment. The commissioners may condition the issuance of a
local control license upon compliance with any bylaw adopted pursuant to 24
V.S.A. § 4414 or upon ordinances regulating signs or public nuisances adopted
pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 2291, except that ordinances may not regulate public
nuisances as applied to:
(A) tier 1 manufacturers; or
(B) outdoor cultivators that are regulated in the same manner as the
Required Agricultural Practices under subdivision 869(f)(2) of this title.
(3) The commission may suspend or revoke a local control license for a
violation of any condition placed upon the license.


--- Page 22 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4969
(4) The Board shall adopt rules relating to a municipality’s issuance of a
local control license in accordance with this subsection and the local
commissioners shall administer the rules furnished to them by the Board as
necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
* * *
(d) A municipality shall not:
(1) prohibit adopt an ordinance or bylaw that completely prohibits the
operation of a cannabis establishment establishments within the municipality
through an ordinance adopted pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 2291 or a bylaw adopted
pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 4414, or regulate a cannabis establishment
establishments in a manner that has the effect of completely prohibiting the
operation of a cannabis establishment establishments within the municipality;
* * *
* * * Distribution of Local License Fees to Municipalities * * *
Sec. 12. 7 V.S.A. § 846 is amended to read:
§ 846. FEES; AUTHORITY
* * *
(c)
Distribution to municipalities.
After
reduction for
costs
of
administration and collection, the Board shall pay local license fees on a
quarterly an annual basis to the municipality for which the fees were collected.
* * * Two-Year Employee Identification Cards * * *
Sec. 13. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:
* * *
(8) Employees. Cannabis establishments licensed by the Board shall be
assessed an annual a biennial licensing fee of $50.00 $100.00 for each
employee. Employee licenses shall be valid for two years.
(9) Products. Cannabis establishments licensed by the Board shall be
assessed an annual product licensing fee of $50.00 for every type of cannabis
and cannabis product that is sold in accordance with this chapter. The Board
may issue longer product registrations, prorated at the same cost per year, for
products it deems low-risk and shelf-stable. The products may be defined and
distinguished in readily accessible published guidance.


--- Page 23 ---
4970
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
* * *
* * * Repeal of Integrated License Provisions * * *
Sec. 14. 7 V.S.A. § 861 is amended to read:
§ 861. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(8) “Cannabis establishment” means a cannabis cultivator, propagation
cultivator, wholesaler, product manufacturer, retailer, or testing laboratory, or
integrated licensee licensed by the Board to engage in commercial cannabis
activity in accordance with this chapter.
* * *
(24)
“Integrated licensee” means a person licensed by the Board to
engage in the activities of a cultivator, wholesaler, product manufacturer,
retailer, and testing laboratory in accordance with this chapter. [Repealed.]
* * *
Sec. 15. 7 V.S.A. § 866 is amended to read:
§ 866. YOUTH
* * *
(c) The Board, in consultation with the Department of Health, shall adopt
rules in accordance with section 881 of this title to:
* * *
(3)
require that cannabis products sold by licensed retailers and
integrated licensees are contained in child-resistant packaging; and
(4) require that cannabis and cannabis products sold by licensed retailers
and integrated licensees are packaged with labels that clearly indicate that the
contents of the package contain cannabis and should be kept away from
persons under 21 years of age.
* * *
Sec. 16. 7 V.S.A. § 881 is amended to read:
§ 881. RULEMAKING; CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
(a) The Board shall adopt rules to implement and administer this chapter in
accordance with subdivisions (1)–(8) of this subsection.
* * *


--- Page 24 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4971
(2)(A) Rules concerning cultivators shall include:
* * *
(v)
labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and
integrated licensees, including health warnings developed in consultation with
the Department of Health;
* * *
(7)
Rules concerning integrated licensees shall include the provisions
provided in subdivisions (1)-(6) of this subsection and any additional
provisions the Board deems appropriate for safe regulation of integrated
licensees in accordance with this chapter. [Repealed.]
(8) Rules concerning propagators shall include:
* * *
(E) labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and integrated
licensees;
* * *
Sec. 17. 7 V.S.A. § 901 is amended to read:
§ 901. GENERAL PROVISIONS
* * *
(d)(1) There shall be seven six types of licenses available:
* * *
(E) a retailer license; and
(F) a testing laboratory license; and
(G) an integrated license.
* * *
(3)(A)
Except as provided in subdivisions (B) and (C) of this
subdivision (3), an applicant and its affiliates may obtain a maximum of one
type of each type of license as provided in subdivisions (1)(A)–(F) of this
subsection (d).
Each license shall permit only one location of the
establishment.
(B) An applicant and its affiliates that control a dispensary registered
on April 1, 2022 may obtain one integrated license provided in subdivision
(1)(G) of this subsection (d) or a maximum of one of each type of license
provided in subdivisions (1)(A)–(F) of this subsection (d). An integrated
licensee may not hold a separate cultivator, propagator, wholesaler, product


--- Page 25 ---
4972
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
manufacturer, retailer, or testing laboratory license, and no applicant or its
affiliates that control a dispensary shall hold more than one integrated license.
An integrated license shall permit only one location for each of the types of
activities
permitted
by
the
license:
cultivation,
propagator,
wholesale
operations, product manufacturing, retail sales, and testing. [Repealed.]
* * *
(e)
A dispensary that obtains a retailer license or an integrated license
pursuant to this chapter shall maintain the dispensary and retail operations in a
manner that protects patient and caregiver privacy in accordance with rules
adopted by the Board.
* * *
Sec. 18. 7 V.S.A. § 904 is amended to read:
§ 904. CULTIVATOR LICENSE
(a) A cultivator licensed under this chapter may:
(1) cultivate, process, package, label, transport, test, and sell cannabis to
a licensed wholesaler, product manufacturer, retailer, integrated licensee, and
dispensary;
* * *
(3) possess and sell cannabis products to a licensed wholesaler, product
manufacturer, retailer, integrated licensee, and dispensary.
* * *
Sec. 19. 7 V.S.A. § 904a is amended to read:
§ 904a. SMALL CULTIVATORS
* * *
(d)
Upon licensing, a small cultivator may sell cannabis to a licensed
dispensary at any time for sale to patients and caregivers pursuant to the
dispensary license or to the public pursuant to an integrated license, including
the time period before retail sales are permitted for licensed cannabis retailers.
Sec. 20. 7 V.S.A. § 910 is amended to read:
§ 910. CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT FEE SCHEDULE
The following fees shall apply to each person or product licensed by the
Board:
* * *


--- Page 26 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4973
(6) Integrated licensees. Integrated licensees shall be assessed an annual
licensing fee of $100,000.00. [Repealed.]
* * *
Sec. 21. 7 V.S.A. § 974 is amended to read:
§ 974. RULEMAKING
(a)(1)
The Board shall adopt rules to implement and administer this
chapter. In adoption of rules, the Board shall strive for consistency with rules
adopted for cannabis establishments pursuant to chapter 33 of this title where
appropriate.
(2) Rules shall include:
* * *
(U) labeling requirements for cannabis sold to retailers and integrated
licensees, including health warnings developed in consultation with the
Department of Health;
* * *
Sec. 22. 7 V.S.A. § 987 is amended to read:
§ 987. CANNABIS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FUND
(a) There is established the Cannabis Business Development Fund, which
shall be managed in accordance with 32 V.S.A. chapter 7, subchapter 5.
(b) The Fund shall comprise:
(1) a one-time contribution of $50,000.00 per integrated license to be
made on or before October 15, 2022; and [Repealed.]
* * *
Sec. 23. [Deleted.]
* * * Household Income; Cannabis Business Expenses Deduction * * *
Sec. 24. 32 V.S.A. § 6061 is amended to read:
§ 6061. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter unless the context requires otherwise:
* * *
(5) “Modified adjusted gross income” means “federal adjusted gross
income”:
* * *


--- Page 27 ---
4974
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(F) With the inclusion of any federal deduction or credit that the
claimant would have been allowed for the cultivation, testing, processing, or
sale of cannabis or cannabis products as authorized under 7 V.S.A. chapter 33
or 37, but for 26 U.S.C. § 280E.
* * *
* * * Outdoor Cannabis Cultivation; Use Value Appraisal Program * * *
Sec. 25. 7 V.S.A. § 869 is amended to read:
§ 869. CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS; ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND
USE STANDARDS; REGULATION OF CULTIVATION
* * *
(f)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a cultivator licensed
under this chapter who initiates cultivation of cultivates cannabis outdoors on a
parcel of land as defined in rule by the Cannabis Control Board pursuant to
section 881 of this chapter shall:
* * *
(3) be eligible to enroll in the Use Value Appraisal Program under 32
V.S.A. chapter 124 for the cultivation of cannabis;
(4) be exempt under 32 V.S.A. § 9741(3), (25), and (50) from the tax on
retail sales imposed under 32 V.S.A. § 9771; and
* * *
Sec. 26. 32 V.S.A. § 3102 is amended to read:
§ 3102. CONFIDENTIALITY OF TAX RECORDS
* * *
(e) The Commissioner may, in the Commissioner’s discretion and subject
to such conditions and requirements as the Commissioner may provide,
including any confidentiality requirements of the Internal Revenue Service,
disclose a return or return information:
* * *
(25) To the Cannabis Control Board for the purposes of administering
the Cannabis Excise Tax under chapter 207 of this title, the Sales and Use Tax
under chapter 233 of this title, and the exemptions to those taxes.
* * *


--- Page 28 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4975
* * * Cannabis Cultivator Cooperatives * * *
Sec. 27. 7 V.S.A. § 904c is added to read:
§ 904c. CANNABIS CULTIVATOR COOPERATIVE CORPORATIONS
Licensed cannabis cultivators may form a cannabis cultivator cooperative
corporation pursuant to 11 V.S.A. chapter 7 in the same manner as other
associations or persons engaged in the production of the agricultural or
handcraft products.
* * * Commercial Cannabis Compact * * *
Sec. 27a. COMMERCIAL CANNABIS COMPACT; INTENT
The General Assembly finds that the medical and commercial cannabis
industry has grown significantly throughout the United States since Vermont
transitioned to a recreational cannabis market in 2022. The General Assembly
further finds that recent statements from federal officials, including provisions
of Executive Order 14370, 90 F.R. 60541, “Increasing Medical Marijuana and
Cannabidiol Research,” indicate a shifting federal posture on regulated
cannabis markets.
Accordingly, it is the intent of the General Assembly to
prepare for the possibility of regional or interstate cannabis markets by
authorizing the Governor to form agreements with other states that have
commercial cannabis markets.
Sec. 27b. 7 V.S.A. § 834 is added to read:
§ 834. COMMERCIAL CANNABIS COMPACT
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Agreement” means an agreement relating to commercial cannabis
authorized pursuant to this section and entered into between this State and
another state or states.
(2) “Contracting state” means a state of the United States, including a
district, commonwealth, territory, or possession subject to the legislative
authority of the United States, with which the Governor has entered into an
agreement pursuant to this section.
(3)
“Foreign licensee” means the holder of a cannabis license issued
pursuant to the laws of another State that has entered into an agreement
pursuant to this section.
(4) “Vermont license” means a cannabis license issued by the Board.


--- Page 29 ---
4976
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(b)
The Governor is authorized to enter into an agreement with another
state or states authorizing medical or commercial cannabis activity, or both,
between entities licensed under the laws of the contracting state and entities
operating with a Vermont license, provided that:
(1)
the commercial cannabis activities are lawful and subject to
licensure under the laws of the contracting state; and
(2) with respect to the interstate transportation of cannabis or cannabis
products, the agreement prohibits the following:
(A)
the transportation of cannabis and cannabis products by any
means other than those authorized under the laws of the contracting state and
the regulations of the Board; and
(B) the transportation of cannabis and cannabis products through the
jurisdiction of a state, district, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the
United States that does not authorize that transportation.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other law, a foreign licensee may engage in
commercial cannabis activity with a Vermont licensee and a Vermont licensee
may engage in commercial cannabis activity with a foreign licensee, subject to
the requirements and limitations set forth in this section.
(d)
A foreign licensee shall not engage in commercial cannabis activity
within the boundaries of this State without a Vermont license, or engage in
commercial cannabis activity within a local jurisdiction without proper
authorization issued by the local jurisdiction.
(e)
An agreement shall require that the contracting state impose
requirements on foreign licensees with regard to cannabis and cannabis
products to be sold or otherwise transferred or distributed within this State that
meet or exceed the requirements applicable to Vermont licensees, including:
(1) enforceable public health and safety standards that are equivalent to
the requirements of the Board;
(2)
mandatory participation in a system administered by this State to
regulate and track cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, transportation, sale,
and destruction of cannabis and cannabis products from seed to sale;
(3) standards for testing of cannabis or cannabis products that meet or
exceed the standards applicable to testing laboratories licensed by the Board;
(4)
requirements for the packaging and labeling of cannabis and
cannabis products that meet or exceed the packaging and labeling requirements
established pursuant to Board rules;


--- Page 30 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4977
(5)
requirements for quality assurance and inspection of cannabis or
cannabis products that meet or exceed the requirements applicable to cannabis
or cannabis products cultivated, manufactured, or sold by Vermont licensees;
(6) restrictions on marketing, labeling, and advertising within this State
by foreign licensees that meet or exceed the restrictions of Vermont licensees
pursuant to this title; and
(7)
a process for identification of adulterated or misbranded cannabis
products, and the destruction of those products, using standards that meet or
exceed the standards and procedures adopted by the Board.
(f) An agreement shall require that the contracting state impose restrictions
upon advertising, marketing, labeling, or sale within the contracting state that
meet or exceed restrictions established pursuant to this title and the rules
adopted by the Board.
(g) An agreement shall provide for collection of all taxes applicable to the
medical or commercial cannabis activity.
(h)
An agreement shall include provisions requiring the Board and any
other appropriate regulatory authorities of the contracting state to address
public health and welfare emergencies concerning cannabis or cannabis
products that are sold or intended for sale within this State, including for
prompt recall or embargo of adulterated or misbranded cannabis products.
(i) An agreement shall include provisions requiring appropriate regulatory
authorities of each state to investigate instances of alleged noncompliance with
the commercial cannabis regulatory rules and regulations upon request by the
other state and in accordance with mutually agreed-upon procedures.  An
agreement shall include provisions requiring the contracting state to reasonably
cooperate with this State’s investigations concerning foreign licensees and
requiring the Board to reasonably cooperate with investigations by the
contracting state concerning persons or entities holding Vermont licenses.
(j)
An agreement shall include appropriate provisions reflecting Board
programs and efforts to promote the inclusion and support of individuals and
communities in the cannabis industry who are linked to populations and
neighborhoods that were negatively or disproportionately impacted by
cannabis criminalization.
(k) Prior to the execution of an agreement or amendment to an agreement,
the Governor shall:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement or amendments to the Board and the
Joint Fiscal Committee for review and comment.  The Board and Committee
shall have 60 days to review the proposed agreement or amendment and to


--- Page 31 ---
4978
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
submit written recommendations to the Governor.  The Governor shall
consider all recommendations submitted by the Board and Committee and may
revise
the
proposed
agreement
or
amendment
to
incorporate
the
recommendations. 
If
the
Governor
does
not
incorporate
any
recommendations, the Governor shall set forth, in writing, the reasons for not
incorporating the recommendations.
(2) Post the proposed agreement or amendment on the Governor’s and
Board’s internet websites for public comment for 30 days.  The Governor shall
consider any comments received.
(l) An agreement entered into pursuant to this section shall not take effect
unless one of the following occurs:
(1)
federal law is amended to allow for the interstate transfer of
cannabis or cannabis products between authorized commercial cannabis
businesses;
(2) federal law is enacted that specifically prohibits the expenditure of
federal funds to prevent the interstate transfer of cannabis or cannabis products
between authorized commercial cannabis businesses;
(3) the U.S. Department of Justice issues an opinion or memorandum
allowing or tolerating the interstate transfer of cannabis products between
authorized commercial cannabis businesses; or
(4) the Attorney General issues a written opinion that implementation of
agreements entered into under this section will not result in significant legal
risk to this State based on review of federal judicial decisions and
administrative action.
(m) The Board shall notify the Governor and the General Assembly upon
the occurrence of an event described in subsection (l) of this section and shall
post the notification on the Board’s website.
(n)
The Board may adopt emergency rules pursuant to 3 V.S.A. § 844
governing the procedures for admission of a foreign licensee to conduct
commercial cannabis activities within the State.
Notwithstanding 3 V.S.A.
§ 844(b), the Board’s emergency rules shall be effective for one year from the
date of adoption.
Within 90 days after adopting the emergency rules, the
Board shall report to the House Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs and the Senate Committee on Economic Development,
Housing and General Affairs concerning its recommendations for necessary
updates to Vermont’s cannabis laws and a proposal for permanent rules
governing commercial cannabis activities subject to an agreement.
Sec. 28. [Deleted.]


--- Page 32 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4979
* * * Repeals * * *
Sec. 29. REPEALS
(a) 7 V.S.A. § 909 (integrated license) is repealed on July 1, 2026.
(b) 7 V.S.A. § 862 (cannabis establishment chapter not applicable to hemp
or therapeutic use of cannabis) is repealed on July 1, 2026.
(c) 7 V.S.A. § 912 (cannabis event permit) is repealed on July 1, 2028.
* * * Residential Rental Agreements; Prohibiting Restrictions on Cannabis
Possession or Use * * *
Sec. 30. 9 V.S.A. § 4468b is added to read:
§ 4468b. RENTAL AGREEMENTS; CANNABIS RESTRICTIONS
PROHIBITED
A rental agreement shall not contain a provision that prohibits a tenant from
possessing cannabis or cannabis products within the rental premises or using
cannabis or cannabis products within a dwelling unit, except that a rental
agreement may prohibit the use of lighted cannabis or cannabis products
intended for inhalation within the rental premises. This section shall not apply
to any rental agreements that are required by federal law to prohibit the
possession or use of cannabis within the rental premises.
Sec. 31. 18 V.S.A. § 4230a is amended to read:
§ 4230a. CANNABIS POSSESSION BY A PERSON 21 YEARS OF AGE
OR OLDER
* * *
(b)(1)
Cannabis possessed or consumed in violation of State law is
contraband pursuant to subsection 4242(d) of this title and subject to seizure
and forfeiture.
(2) This section does not:
* * *
(E)
prohibit a landlord from banning possession or use of lighted
cannabis or cannabis products intended for inhalation in a lease agreement; or
* * *
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 32. EFFECTIVE DATES
(a) This section shall take effect on passage.


--- Page 33 ---
4980
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(b) Notwithstanding 1 V.S.A. § 214, Sec. 24 (household income; cannabis
business expenses deduction) shall take effect retroactively on January 1, 2025,
for household income received beginning in the 2025 calendar year and shall
apply to property tax credit claims filed on and after January 1, 2026.
(c)
Sec. 10a (cannabis establishment fee schedule) shall take effect on
January 1, 2027, provided that on or before that date the General Assembly has
appropriated or transferred a minimum of $105,000.00 to the Cannabis
Regulation Fund for purposes of replacing the reduction in fee revenue from
outdoor cultivators.
(d) Sec. 13 (cannabis establishment fee schedule) shall take effect on July
1, 2027.
(e) All other sections shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
Rep. Waszazak of Barre City, for the Committee on Ways and Means,
recommended that the bill pass in concurrence with the proposal of
amendment recommended by the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs.
Rep. Nigro of Bennington, for the Committee on Appropriations,
recommended that the bill pass in concurrence with the proposal of
amendment recommended by the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs.
The bill, having appeared on the Notice Calendar, was taken up and read
the second time.
Pending the question, Shall the House propose to the Senate to amend the
bill as recommended by the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs?, Rep. Birong of Vergennes moved to amend the report of
the Committee on Government Operations and Military Affairs as follows:
First: By striking out Sec. 1, 7 V.S.A. § 881, in its entirety and inserting in
lieu thereof a new Sec. 1 to read as follows:
Sec. 1. [Deleted.]
Second:
By striking out Sec. 11, 7 V.S.A. § 863, in its entirety and
inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 11 to read as follows:
Sec. 11. 7 V.S.A. § 863 is amended to read:
§ 863. REGULATION BY LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(a)(1)
Prior to a cannabis retailer or the retail portion of an integrated
licensee operating within a municipality, the municipality shall affirmatively
permit the operation of such cannabis establishments by majority vote of those


--- Page 34 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4981
present and voting by Australian ballot at an annual or special meeting warned
for that purpose. A municipality may place retailers or integrated licensees, or
both, on the ballot for approval.
(2)
A vote to permit the operation of a licensed cannabis retailer or
integrated licensee within the municipality shall remain in effect until
rescinded by majority vote of those present and voting by Australian ballot at a
subsequent annual or special meeting warned for that purpose. A rescission of
the permission to operate a licensed cannabis retailer or integrated licensee
within the municipality under this subdivision shall not apply to a licensed
cannabis retailer or integrated licensee that is operating within the municipality
at the time of the vote.
* * *
Third: By inserting a new section to be Sec. 12a to read as follows:
Sec. 12a. 7 V.S.A. § 847 is amended to read:
§ 847. APPEALS
* * *
(e) The Board may enforce a final administrative penalty by filing a civil
collection action in any Superior Court.
Fourth:
In Sec. 32, effective dates, by striking out subsection (c) in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (c) to read as follows:
(c) Sec. 10a (cannabis establishment fee schedule) shall take effect on July
1, 2027.
Which was agreed to.
Pending the question, Shall the House propose to the Senate to amend the
bill as recommended by the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs, as amended?, Rep. Nugent of South Burlington moved to
further amend the report of the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs in Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, by striking out subsection (c) in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (c) to read as follows:
(c) Restrictions. Annually, the Board shall issue not more than five permits
for public events and five permits for private events. An event permit shall be
issued only for events being held at locations within a municipality that has
voted affirmatively to permit the operation of cannabis retail establishments.
An event permit shall be valid for a single event not to exceed 24 hours held at
a single access-controlled location. An event permit shall not be issued for a
location at which alcoholic beverages are sold or furnished for on-premises
consumption. A cannabis retailer that holds an event permit shall not conduct


--- Page 35 ---
4982
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
sales at the licensed retail location and the permitted event contemporaneously,
except for sales conducted from a permitted event location that is contiguous
with the licensed retail location. The holder of an event permit shall sell only
registered adult-use cannabis and cannabis products at the event.
Which was agreed to.
Pending the question, Shall the House propose to the Senate to amend the
bill as recommended by the Committee on Government Operations and
Military Affairs, as amended?, Reps. Tagliavia of Corinth and Boyden of
Cambridge moved to further amend the report of the Committee on
Government Operations and Military Affairs as follows:
First: In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, by striking out subsection (a) in its entirety
and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (a) to read as follows:
(a) Authorization. The Board may grant event permits to licensed cannabis
retail establishments in good standing.
The holder of an event permit is
authorized to oversee and administer a commercial event pursuant to this
section and procedures adopted by the Board.
No cannabis or cannabis
products shall be consumed at an event authorized by this section.
Second: In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, in subsection (b), in the first sentence,
after “A licensed cannabis” by inserting the word “retail”
Third: In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, by striking out subdivision (b)(6) in its
entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new subdivision (b)(6) to read as
follows:
(6) compliance with any other health and safety requirements that the
Board may prescribe for the particular event or event location, including limits
on attendees.
Fourth: In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, in subsection (c), by striking out the first
sentence in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new sentence to read
“Annually, the Board shall issue not more than ten permits for public events.”
Fifth: In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, in subsection (e), after the first usage of
the word “Cannabis” by inserting the word “retail”
Sixth:
In Sec. 5, 7 V.S.A. § 912, in subsection (f), by striking out the
second sentence in its entirety.
Which was agreed to.
Thereupon, the report of the Committee on
Government Operations and Military Affairs, as amended, was agreed to and
third reading ordered.


--- Page 36 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4983
On motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney, the rules were suspended and the
bill placed in all remaining stages of passage. The bill was read the third time
and passed in concurrence with proposal of amendment.
Thereupon, on motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney, the rules were
suspended and the bill was ordered messaged to the Senate forthwith.
Recess
At one o'clock and fifty-four minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker declared
a recess until the fall of the gavel.
Message from the Governor
A message was received from His Excellency, the Governor, by Ms. Jaye
Pershing Johnson, Secretary of Civil and Military Affairs, as follows:
Madam Speaker:
I am directed by the Governor to inform the House of Representatives that
on the 27th day of May, 2026, he signed bills originating in the House of the
following titles:
H. 635
An act relating to eliminating Department of Corrections
supervisory fees
H. 778
An act relating to dam safety
Called to Order
At two o'clock and seven minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker called the
House to order.
Recess
At two o'clock and fifteen minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker declared a
recess until the fall of the gavel.
Message from the Senate No. 69
A message was received from the Senate by Ms. Gradel, its Assistant
Secretary, as follows:
Madam Speaker:
I am directed to inform the House that:
The Senate has considered bills originating in the House of the following
titles:
H. 542. An act relating to terminating testing of schools in Vermont for
polychlorinated biphenyls.


--- Page 37 ---
4984
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
H. 710. An act relating to defining electricity generating facilities.
And has passed the same in concurrence with proposals of amendment in
the adoption of which the concurrence of the House is requested.
Called to Order
At four o'clock and twenty-three minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker
called the House to order.
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration; Senate Proposal of
Amendment Concurred in
H. 928
Appearing on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney,
the rules were suspended and House bill, entitled
An act relating to technical corrections to fish and wildlife statutes
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate proposed to the House to amend the bill as follows:
First: In Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 4502, in subsection (b), in subdivision (2), by
striking out subdivision (SS) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new
subdivision (SS) to read as follows:
(SS) Appendix § 37, section 9.0. Feeding deer [Repealed.]
Second: In Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 4502, in subsection (b), in subdivision (3),
by striking out subdivision (O) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a
new subdivision (O) to read as follows:
(O) Appendix § 7, sections 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 5.3, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3(b), 6.3(d),
6.3(e), 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, and 7.4, and 8.2. Bear, unauthorized taking management
rule
Third: In Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 4502, in subsection (b), in subdivision (3), by
striking out subdivision (P) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new
subdivision (P) to read as follows:
(P) Appendix § 22, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 5.1, 5.2, 5.4, 6.4, and
6.5. Turkey season, excluding: requirements for youth turkey hunting season;
and size of shot used or possessed seasons
Fourth: In Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 4502, in subsection (b), in subdivision (3),
by striking out subdivision (U) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a
new subdivision (U) to read as follows:
(U) Appendix § 37, sections 5.1, 6.1, 6.2, 7.1, 7.2, 7.4, 8.1, 8.2, 8.4,
9.1, 9.2, 9.4, 9.5, 12.2, and 14.
Deer management rule, excluding


--- Page 38 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4985
requirements for youth deer hunting weekend; requirements for novice season;
limitations on feeding of deer; reporting big game; and section 11.0, ban of
urine and other natural lures
Fifth: In Sec. 4, 1999 Acts and Resolves No. 1, Sec. 87a, by striking out
subdivision (A)(ii)(II) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new
subdivision (A)(ii)(II) to read as follows:
(II)
Plan and Involve the Community.
Involve Vermont
citizens and municipalities in when developing and updating every 10 years
a the long-term comprehensive plan for management of portions of the lands
which are transferred to it.
Sixth:
In Sec. 3, 10 V.S.A. § 4255 (license fees), by inserting a new
subsection to be subsection (p) to read as follows:
(p)
The Commissioner may assess the following fees for the use of
Department of Fish and Wildlife lands and facilities.
All fees or charges
collected for the use of Department of Fish and Wildlife lands and facilities
shall be deposited in the Fish and Wildlife Fund:
(1) Rental of the Edward F. Kehoe Education Center:
(A) Partnering organizations and municipalities:
(i)
Education Center day use (per day for use of all facilities):
$300.00
(ii)
Damage deposit (refundable if all requirements are met):
$150.00 per rental
(iii)
Cabin rental (rate is for four persons, $5.00 per additional
person):
$60.00 per night
(B) School groups (K–12) day use:
$5.00 per student
(C) Private entity: Education Center day use (per day for use of all
facilities):
$600.00
(D) Weddings:
$5,000.00, or $4,000.00 if
a certified wedding planner
is used for the event
(2) Rental of Buck Lake Conservation Camp:
(A) Partnering organizations and municipalities:
(i) Education Center day use (per day/all facilities):
$300.00
(ii) Damage deposit (refundable if all requirements met):
$150.00 per rental


--- Page 39 ---
4986
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(B) Private entity:
(i) Education Center day use (per day/all facilities):
$600.00
(ii)
Cabin rentals (rate is for four persons, $5.00 per additional
person):
$60.00 per night
(3) Controlled waterfowl hunt (Dead Creek Wildlife Management Area
or Mud Creek Wildlife Management Area):
$10.00 per person
(4) Meeting rooms:
(A) Grand Isle Fish Culture Station:
$25.00 per day
(B)
Gordon Center Training Facility, overnight accommodations:
$25.00 per person per night
(5) Special use permit:
$50.00 minimum–$10,000.00 maximum
(6) License:
$50.00 minimum–$10,000.00 maximum
Which proposal of amendment was considered and concurred in.
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration; Senate Proposal of
Amendment Concurred in
H. 915
Appearing on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney,
the rules were suspended and House bill, entitled
An act relating to establishing an extended producer responsibility program
for beverage containers
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate proposed to the House to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. 10 V.S.A. chapter 53 is amended to read:
CHAPTER 53. BEVERAGE CONTAINERS; DEPOSIT-REDEMPTION
SYSTEM
§ 1521. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
(1) “Beverage” means beer or other malt beverages and mineral waters,
mixed wine drink, soda water and carbonated soft drinks in liquid form and
intended for human consumption. “Beverage” also means liquor and ready-to-
drink spirits beverage.


--- Page 40 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4987
(2)
“Biodegradable material” means material that is capable of being
broken down by bacteria into basic elements. [Repealed.]
(3) “Container” means the individual, and separate, bottle, can, or jar, or
carton
composed
of
glass,
aluminum
or
other
metal,
paper,
plastic
polyethylene terephthalate, high density polyethylene, or any combination of
those materials, and containing a consumer product beverage. This definition
shall does not include containers made of biodegradable material beverage
containers with a volume greater than three liters.
(4)
“Dealer” means any person, including any operator of a vending
machine or retailer, who engages in the sale of beverages in beverage
containers to consumers in the State.
(5)
“Deposit initiator” means the first distributor or manufacturer to
collect the deposit on a beverage container sold to any person within the State.
If no person initiates a deposit, the first distributor in the State shall be the
deposit initiator.
(6)
“Distributor” means every person who engages in the sale of
consumer products beverages in containers to a dealer in this State, including
any manufacturer who engages in such sales. Any dealer or retailer who sells,
at the retail level, beverages in containers without having purchased them from
a person otherwise classified as a distributor shall be is a distributor.
(7)
“Fair compensation” means the compensation from the producer
responsibility organization to the point of redemption in the amount that
covers the point of redemption’s reasonable costs of operating redemption
services and a reasonable rate of return.
(5)(8) “Manufacturer” means every person bottling, canning, packing,
or otherwise filling containers for sale to distributors or dealers.
(9)
“Mixed wine drink” means a beverage containing wine and more
than 15 percent added plain, carbonated, or sparkling water and that contains
added natural or artificial blended material, such as fruit juices, flavors,
flavoring, adjuncts, coloring, or preservatives; a beverage that contains not
more than 16 percent alcohol by volume; or another similar product marketed
as a wine cooler.
(10)
“Point of redemption” means a location included in the plan
adopted under section 1532 of this title that redeems beverage containers under
this chapter.
A point of redemption includes manually sorting containers,
mechanically sorting containers, and bag drops.


--- Page 41 ---
4988
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(11) “Point of redemption with immediate return of deposit” means a
point of redemption that immediately provides a person with a deposit when a
beverage container is presented for redemption.
(6)(12)
“Recycling” means the process of sorting, cleansing, treating,
and reconstituting waste and other discarded materials for the purpose of
reusing the materials in the same or altered form.
(7)(13) “Redemption center” means a store or other location where any
person may, during normal business hours, redeem the amount of the deposit
for any empty beverage container labeled or certified pursuant to section 1524
of this title.
(14)
“Redemption rate” means the number of beverage containers
redeemed for the deposit divided by the number of beverage containers sold
and may not include in its calculation any unredeemed beverage containers
collected or processed by municipal or other recycling programs.
(15) “Retailer” means a store or other licensed entity, including vending
machines, where containers are sold at the retail level for off-premise
consumption.
(8)(16) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Natural Resources.
(9)
“Mixed wine drink” means a beverage containing wine and more
than 15 percent added plain, carbonated, or sparkling water and that contains
added natural or artificial blended material, such as fruit juices, flavors,
flavoring, adjuncts, coloring, or preservatives; that contains not more than
16 percent alcohol by volume; or other similar product marketed as a wine
cooler.
(10)(17) “Liquor” means spirits as defined in 7 V.S.A. § 2.
§ 1522. BEVERAGE CONTAINERS; DEPOSIT
(a) Except with respect to beverage containers that contain liquor, a deposit
of not less than five cents shall be paid by the consumer on each beverage
container sold at the retail level and refunded to the consumer upon return of
the empty beverage container. With respect to beverage containers of volume
greater than 50 ml. that contain liquor, a deposit of 15 cents shall be paid by
the consumer on each beverage container sold at the retail level and refunded
to the consumer upon return of the empty beverage container. The difference
between liquor bottle deposits collected and refunds made is hereby retained
by the Liquor Control Enterprise Fund for administration of this subsection.
(b)
A retailer or a person operating a redemption center who redeems
beverage containers shall be reimbursed by the manufacturer or distributor of
such deposit initiator of the beverage containers in an amount that is three and


--- Page 42 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4989
one-half four and one-half cents per container for containers of beverage
brands that are part of a commingling program and four five cents per
container for containers of beverage brands that are not part of a commingling
program.
Beginning on March 1, 2029, a retailer or a person operating a
redemption center shall be reimbursed for beverage containers that are covered
by a stewardship plan approved by the Secretary under this chapter according
to the fair compensation requirements of the plan.
* * *
(d) Containers shall be redeemed during no fewer than 40 hours per week
during the regular operating hours of the establishment. [Repealed.]
§ 1522a. RULES
The Secretary may adopt rules, in accordance with 3 V.S.A. chapter 25,
necessary for the administration of this chapter. These rules may include the
following:
(1)
Provisions to ensure that beverage containers not labeled in
accordance with section 1524 of this title are not redeemed.
(2) Provisions to ensure that beverage containers are commingled.
(3) Administrative penalties for the failure by a redemption center or
retailer to remove beverage containers that are not labeled prior to pickup by a
distributor or manufacturer. Penalties may include nonpayment of the deposit
and handling fee established under section 1522 of this title for a reasonable
period of time and for the number of beverage containers that were not
labeled.
(4) Any other provision that may be necessary for the implementation of
this chapter. [Repealed.]
§ 1523. ACCEPTANCE OF BEVERAGE CONTAINERS
(a) Except as provided in section 1522 of this title:
(1)
A retailer shall not refuse to accept from any person any empty
beverage containers, labeled in accordance with section 1524 of this title, of
the kind, size, and brand sold by the retailer, or and a retailer or a redemption
center shall not refuse to pay to that a person the refund value of a beverage
container as established by section 1522 of this title, except as provided in
subsection (b) subsections (b) or (c) of this section.
(2) A manufacturer or distributor may shall not refuse to pick up from a
retailer that sells its product or a person operating a certified redemption center
any empty beverage containers, labeled in accordance with section 1524 of this
title, of the kind, size, and brand sold by the manufacturer or distributor, or


--- Page 43 ---
4990
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
refuse to pay the retailer or a person operating a redemption center the refund
value of a beverage container as established by section 1522 of this title.
(b)
A retailer, with the prior approval of the Secretary, may refuse to
redeem beverage containers if a redemption center or centers are established
that serve the public need.
(c)
A retailer or a person operating a redemption center may refuse to
redeem beverage containers that are not clean, or are broken, and shall not
redeem
beverage containers that
are
not
labeled in accordance
with
section 1524 of this title.
* * *
§ 1524. LABELING
(a)(1)
Every beverage container sold or offered for sale at retail in this
State shall clearly indicate by embossing or on the normal product label,
imprinting on the normal product label, or in the case of a metal beverage
container on the top of the container, other approved method secured to the
container the word “Vermont” or the letters “VT” and the refund value of the
container in not less than one-eighth inch type size or such other alternate
indications as may be approved by the Secretary.
(2) The label shall be on the top lid of the beverage container, the side
of the beverage container, or in a clearly visible location on the beverage
container. This subsection does not prohibit including names or abbreviations
of other states with deposit legislation comparable to this chapter.
(b)
The Commissioner of Liquor and Lottery may allow, in the case of
liquor bottles, a conspicuous, adhesive sticker to be attached to indicate the
deposit information required in subsection (a) of this section, provided that the
size, placement, and adhesive qualities of the sticker are as approved by the
Commissioner. The stickers shall be affixed to the bottles by the manufacturer,
except that liquor that is sold in the State in quantities less than 100 cases per
year may have stickers affixed by personnel employed by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(c) This section shall not apply to permanently labeled beverage containers
Every beverage container sold or offered for sale in the State shall contain a
Universal Product Code and a barcode displayed on the container.
* * *
§ 1527. PENALTY REDEMPTION OF LIQUOR BOTTLES
A person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $1,000.00 for each violation Notwithstanding any other provision of this


--- Page 44 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4991
chapter to the contrary, redemption of beverage containers of volume greater
than 50 ml that contain liquor shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
Deposit.
Beverage containers subject to this section shall have a
deposit of 15 cents on each container sold at the retail level and returned to the
consumer upon return of the empty beverage container.
(2)
Handling fee.
Distributors of beverage containers subject to this
section shall pay a point of redemption that redeems a beverage container four
and one-half cents per container.
(3)
Redemption.
A retailer shall not refuse to accept beverage
containers subject to this section or refuse to pay a person the refund value
established by subdivision (1) of this section for any container unless the
container is not clean, broken, or has an exemption issued by the Secretary.
The Department of Liquor and Lottery shall not refuse to pick up empty
beverage containers subject to this section, pay the refund value, or pay the
handling fee to a retailer or redemption center subject to this section.
(4)
Coordination with producer responsibility organization.
The
Department of Liquor and Lottery may coordinate with and compensate the
producer responsibility organization to collect beverages containers subject to
this section at points of redemption that are a part of the collection plan
developed by the producer responsibility organization. Containers collected at
these points of redemption shall not be subject to the handling fee established
by subdivision (2) of this section.
(5) Performance goals and reporting.
The Department of Liquor and
Lottery shall be subject to the redemption rate goals established in section
1534 of this title for beverage containers containing liquor.
Beginning on
January 15, 2027, and annually thereafter, the Commissioner of Liquor and
Lottery shall report to the Secretary of Natural Resources:
(A) the amount and tonnage of liquor bottles that the Department of
Liquor and Lottery collected in the previous calendar year; and
(B)
the redemption rate for liquor bottles in the previous calendar
year.
* * *
§ 1529. REDEMPTION CENTER CERTIFICATION
A person operating a redemption center may shall obtain a certification
from the Secretary.
A redemption center certification shall include the
following:
(1) Specification of the name and location of the facility;.


--- Page 45 ---
4992
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(2)
If the certified redemption center redeems more than 250,000
containers per year, a requirement that the certified redemption center shall
participate in an approved commingling agreement; and
(3) Additional conditions, requirements, and restrictions as the Secretary
may deem necessary to implement the requirements of this chapter. This may
shall include requirements concerning reporting, recording, and inspections of
the operation of the site.
§ 1530. ABANDONED BEVERAGE CONTAINER DEPOSITS
(a) As used in this section, “deposit initiator” means the first distributor or
manufacturer to collect the deposit on a beverage container sold to any person
within the State.
(b) Beginning on January 1, 2020, and quarterly thereafter, every deposit
initiator shall
report
to the Secretary of
Natural
Resources and the
Commissioner of Taxes. The report shall be submitted on or before the 25th
day of the calendar month succeeding the quarter ending on the last day of
March, June, September, and December each year. The deposit initiator shall
submit the report on a form provided by the Commissioner of Taxes.
The
report shall include:
(1) the number of beverage containers sold in the preceding quarter and
the number of beverage containers returned in the preceding quarter;
(2) the amount of beverage container deposits received by the deposit
initiator;
(3) the amount of refund payments made in the preceding quarter; and
(4) any additional information required by the Commissioner of Taxes.
(c)(b)(1) On or before January 1, 2020, and quarterly thereafter, at the time
a report is filed pursuant to subsection (d) of this section, each deposit initiator
shall remit to the Commissioner of Taxes any abandoned beverage container
deposits from the preceding quarter.
The amount of abandoned beverage
container deposits for a quarter is the amount equal to the amount of deposits
that the deposit initiator collected in the quarter less the amount of the total
refund value paid out by the deposit initiator for beverage containers during
the quarter.
(2)
In any calendar quarter, the deposit initiator may submit to the
Commissioner of Taxes a request for reimbursement of refunds paid under this
chapter that exceed the amount of deposits collected in the quarter.
The
Commissioner of Taxes shall pay a request for reimbursement under this
subdivision from the funds remitted to the Commissioner under subdivision
(1) of this subsection, provided that:


--- Page 46 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4993
(A) the Commissioner determines that the deposits collected by the
deposit initiator are insufficient to pay the refunds on returned beverage
containers; and
(B)
a reimbursement paid by the Commissioner to the deposit
initiator shall not exceed the amount paid by the deposit initiator under
subdivision (1) of this subsection (c) less amounts paid to the initiator pursuant
to this subdivision (2) in the previous four quarterly filings.
(3)
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, all the
administrative provisions of 32 V.S.A. chapter 151, including those relating to
collection, enforcement, interest, and penalty charges, shall apply to the
remittance of abandoned beverage container deposits.
(4) A deposit initiator may within 60 days after the date of mailing of a
notice of deficiency, the date of a full or partial denial of a request for
reimbursement, or the date of an assessment petition the Commissioner of
Taxes in writing for a hearing and determination on the matter. The hearing
shall be subject to and governed by 3 V.S.A. chapter 25. Within 30 days after
a determination, an aggrieved deposit initiator may appeal a determination by
the Commissioner of Taxes to the Washington Superior Court or the Superior
Court of the county in which the deposit initiator resides or has a place of
business.
(5) Notwithstanding any appeal, upon finding that a deposit initiator has
failed to remit the full amount required by this chapter, the Commissioner of
Taxes may treat any refund payment owed by the Commissioner to a deposit
initiator as if it were a payment received and may apply the payment in
accordance with 32 V.S.A. § 3112.
(d)(c)
The Secretary of Natural Resources may prohibit the sale of a
beverage that is sold or distributed in the State by a deposit initiator who fails
to comply with the requirements of this chapter. The Secretary may allow the
sale of a beverage upon the deposit initiator’s coming into compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(e)(d)
Data reported to the Secretary of Natural Resources and the
Commissioner of Taxes by a deposit initiator under this section shall be
confidential business information exempt from public inspection and copying
under 1 V.S.A. § 317(c)(9) but shall not be confidential return information
under 32 V.S.A. § 3102, provided that the Commissioner of Taxes may use and
disclose such information in summary or aggregated form that does not
directly or indirectly identify individual deposit initiators except to the
Secretary of Natural Resources in relation to the administration of this chapter.


--- Page 47 ---
4994
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
§ 1531. MANUFACTURER AND DISTRIBUTOR PARTICIPATION IN
PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY ORGANIZATION
(a) No deposit initiator shall sell or distribute a beverage container in this
State without participating in a Secretary-approved producer responsibility
organization.
(b)
On or before January 1, 2027, the deposit initiator of beverage
containers sold or distributed within the State shall apply to the Secretary to
form a producer responsibility organization to fulfill the requirements of
deposit initiators under this chapter.
(c) The Secretary may approve, for a period not longer than 10 years, the
producer responsibility organization, provided that:
(1)
the producer responsibility organization or its subsidiary is
registered under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) as a nonprofit entity;
(2)
the producer responsibility organization has the capacity to
administer the requirements of a stewardship plan required by section 1532 of
this title; and
(3)
the producer responsibility organization does not create any
unreasonable barriers to joining the producer responsibility organization and
shall take into the consideration the needs of small manufacturers that do not
generate a significant volume of containers.
(d) After approval, the producer responsibility organization shall maintain
a website that identifies:
(1)
the name and principal business address of each manufacturer or
distributor participating in the producer responsibility organization;
(2)
the name of each beverage and the container size covered by the
stewardship plan; and
(3) for each beverage container subject to the plan, a Universal Product
Code and a barcode shall be displayed on the container.
(e)
The producer responsibility organization may charge fees to deposit
initiators to cover the costs of administration and implementation of this
chapter.
Deposit initiators shall pay all fees required by the producer
responsibility organization and provide any data required by the producer
responsibility organization.
If a deposit initiator fails to meet these
requirements, the producer responsibility organization may remove it from the
producer responsibility organization.


--- Page 48 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4995
(f)
If the producer responsibility organization fails to implement the
requirements of this chapter, the rules adopted by the Secretary, or an approved
stewardship plan, the Secretary may dissolve the producer responsibility
organization.
(g) If no producer responsibility organization is formed, the Secretary shall
either require the formation of the producer responsibility organization or
adopt and administer a plan that meets the requirements of section 1532 of this
title. If the Secretary administers the plan adopted under section 1532 of this
title, the Secretary shall charge each deposit initiator the costs of plan
administration, the Agency’s oversight
costs,
and a recycling market
development assessment of 25 percent of the plan’s total cost to be deposited
in the Solid Waste Management Assistance Account of the Waste Management
Assistance Fund, for the purpose of providing grants to develop markets to
recycle materials.
(h) The producer responsibility organization shall reimburse the Secretary
for the costs of overseeing the administration of the program under this chapter
as follows:
(1)
The Secretary shall annually provide an estimate of the costs of
overseeing the administration of the program to the producer responsibility
organization, including staff costs, compliance, and oversight of the system.
(2)
The producer responsibility organization shall provide any
comments to the Secretary’s budget within 30 days following receipt.
The
Agency of Natural Resources shall respond to all comments provided by the
producer responsibility organization and may make changes to its budget in
response to those comments.
These comments and the responses shall be
provided to the General Assembly as a part of the Secretary’s budget.
(3)
Reimbursement of Agency of Natural Resources costs under this
subsection shall be subject to the State budgeting process, and the producer
responsibility organization shall not be required to reimburse any Agency cost
unless that cost is approved as a part of the Agency’s budget.
(i)
Manufacturers and distributors of liquor are exempt from the
requirements of this section and the requirement to implement a stewardship
plan under section 1532 of this title.
§ 1532. STEWARDSHIP PLAN; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
(a)
Plan elements.
On or before April 1, 2028, an approved producer
responsibility organization shall submit a stewardship plan to the Secretary. A
stewardship plan shall, at a minimum, meet all of the following requirements
of this section:


--- Page 49 ---
4996
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(1) Convenience of collection.
(A)
A
plan
shall
ensure
that
consumers
have
convenient
opportunities to redeem beverage containers. The plan shall take reasonable
efforts to site points of redemption equitably across all regions of the State to
allow for convenient and reasonable access of all Vermonters to redemption
opportunities.
A plan shall document how redemption services will be
available to consumers as follows:
(i) at least three points of redemption per county, at least one of
which provides an immediate return of a deposit to a consumer;
(ii)
at least one point of redemption per municipality with a
population of 7,000 or more persons that provides an immediate return of a
deposit to a consumer unless the Secretary determines that requiring an
immediate return of deposit would create an impediment to effective
redemption under the plan; and
(iii) how sites of redemption are or will be sited in areas with high
population density or located in centers designated under 24 V.S.A. chapter
76A.
(B) The producer responsibility organization may propose in its plan
to remove retail redemption locations required by subdivision 1523(a)(2) of
this title.
When proposing to remove these retail locations, the producer
responsibility organization shall document how the location is adequately
served by other points of redemption.
The Secretary shall not approve any
reduction that reduces the points of redemption below the levels required
under subdivisions (1)(A)(i) and (ii) of this subsection (a). The Secretary may
require additional points of redemption based on the location of proposed or
existing points of redemption, shopping patterns, and the convenience of
redeeming beverage containers.
(C)
The producer responsibility organization may not use only
single-feed reverse vending machines or only mobile points of redemption as
the point of redemption to satisfy the requirement under subdivision (1)(A)(i)
of this subsection (a) except where the producer responsibility organization
documents that the population and retail density of the county is adequately
served by the use of these forms of collection.
(D) The producer responsibility organization shall ensure that points
of redemption have the operational capacity to redeem beverage containers.
This includes training on the use of equipment, providing service of equipment
in a reasonable time if there are issues, and providing pick-up of collected
containers from the point of redemption in a reasonable period from receiving
a request.


--- Page 50 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4997
(2) Fair operation and compensation to redemption centers. The plan
shall satisfy all of the following requirements:
(A) The plan shall describe how all locations that redeem beverage
containers are fairly compensated for their participation in the collection
program provided that the producer responsibility organization shall pay each
location that redeems beverage containers:
(i)
four and one-half cents per container for all other means of
redemption at a location; or
(ii)
according to a separate compensation agreement negotiated
between a redemption location or a group of redemption locations that
redeems beverage containers and the producer responsibility organization.
(B) There shall not be barriers to the participation in the collection
program for a redemption center, except for restrictions that are authorized by
the Secretary.
(C)
The plan shall describe how management and sorting of
containers at points of redemption is minimized. The plan shall document how
brand sorting will be eliminated at points of redemption.
(D)
The plan shall describe how materials will be picked up from
points of redemption on a timely basis.
(E) The plan shall maximize the use of existing infrastructure, when
establishing points of redemption under subdivision (1) of this subsection (a).
(F)
Consistent with guidelines developed by the Secretary, the
producer responsibility organization shall use binding dispute resolution to
resolve
any
disputes
that
arise
surrounding
negotiation
of
separate
compensation agreements between the producer responsibility organization
and points of redemption. This process shall be implemented using a neutral
third-party decision maker agreed to by all parties.
(G)
After the plan is effective for two years and six months, the
producer responsibility organization shall submit a report on fair compensation
to the Secretary.
The report shall either describe how the producer
responsibility organization has adjusted compensation for points of redemption
or document why such an adjustment is not necessary.
(3) Redemption amount. The producer responsibility organization or a
point of redemption operating under the plan shall pay a person presenting a
beverage container for redemption the refund value of the beverage container
as established by section 1522 of this title.


--- Page 51 ---
4998
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(4)
Collection location standards.
All locations that provide for
redemption of beverage containers shall:
(A)
provide timely redemption services that limit the need for
persons redeeming containers to wait for redemption services;
(B) be at sites that are secure, sufficiently lighted, and managed to
ensure the safety of persons redeeming containers at a location;
(C) be open and accepting beverage containers:
(i) in the case of a fixed point of redemption, at least 35 hours per
week, including six consecutive hours on Saturday; or
(ii) in the case of a mobile point of redemption, at least 15 hours
per week, including at least four consecutive hours on Saturday; and
(D)
comply with all applicable laws related to the collection,
transportation, and disposition of mandated recyclables.
(5)
Education to consumers.
The plan shall describe what education
efforts will be undertaken to increase the number of beverage containers
redeemed in the State.
(6)
Consultation with stakeholders.
The producer responsibility
organization shall consult with stakeholders on the development of the plan.
The plan shall include processes for regular consultation, which shall take
place not less than annually, with stakeholders, including the Agency,
redemption centers, municipal and private recycling organizations, bag drop
and reverse vending technology providers, and other stakeholders.
Prior to
submitting a proposed plan to the Agency, the producer responsibility
organization shall allow the public to comment on the proposed plan.
The
producer responsibility organization shall either make changes in response to
those comments or provide a written response on why the change was not
made to the stakeholders and the Agency.
(7) The Agency shall publish the proposed and final approved plan on
the Agency’s website.
(b) Reporting. At a frequency required by the Secretary but not less than
annually, the producer responsibility organization shall report the following to
the Secretary:
(1)
the name, address, and business hours of each redemption center
participating in the approved stewardship plan and the number of redemption
centers added or removed from the plan over the preceding year;


--- Page 52 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
4999
(2) the amount, in containers and tons, and material type of beverage
containers redeemed under the plan and the redemption rate of beverage
containers;
(3)
the location and amount of beverage container material that was
recycled and what products that beverage container material was recycled into;
(4)
the carbon impacts associated with the administration of the
stewardship plan;
(5)
the costs associated with administration of the stewardship plan,
including the costs of collection, management, and transportation of redeemed
containers and the amount received for commodities;
(6)
a description of any improvements made in the reporting year to
increase ease and convenience for consumers to return beverage containers for
redemption;
(7) efforts taken by or on behalf of the manufacturer or distributor to
reduce environmental impacts throughout the product life cycle and to increase
reusability or recyclability at the end of the life cycle by material type;
(8)
efforts taken by or on behalf of the producer responsibility
organization to improve the environmental outcomes of the program by
improving operational efficiency, such as reduction of truck trips through
improved material handling or compaction or the increased use of refillable
containers in a local refilling system;
(9)
a description and copies of educational materials and educational
strategies the producer responsibility organization uses for the purposes of this
program; and
(10) any additional information required by the Secretary.
(c) Review of stewardship plan.
(1) Within 90 days after receipt of a plan submitted under this section,
the Secretary shall review the plan and determine whether to approve the plan,
deny the plan, or require an amendment to the plan. The Secretary may amend
or add conditions to the plan as a part of the approval.
The plan shall be
approved after concluding that the plan meets the criteria established in this
section and the elements of the plan will maximize diversion of recyclable
materials, provide convenience to users, and create a more circular economy.
If the plan is denied, the Secretary shall provide a basis for that denial and the
producer responsibility organization shall submit a revised plan addressing
these issues within 60 days following the notice of denial.


--- Page 53 ---
5000
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(2) At least six months prior to the expiration of the plan, the producer
responsibility organization shall submit a renewal to the stewardship plan.
Renewals shall address all elements considered in the original plan and shall be
considered in the same manner as an original plan. The Secretary shall issue a
final determination on an application for renewal not later than 90 days before
the expiration of the plan.
(3) The Secretary’s approval pursuant to this subsection shall be for a
period not greater than five years.
(d)
Plan implementation.
The producer responsibility organization shall
implement the approved plan on March 1, 2029.
(e)
Revision of stewardship goals.
If the producer responsibility
organization fails to meet the beverage container redemption rate in section
1534 of this title for all other beverage containers, the Secretary may require
the producer responsibility organization to implement activities to enhance the
rate of redemption, including additional public education and outreach,
additional redemption sites, or additional redemption opportunities.
§ 1533. PROGRAM AND FISCAL AUDIT
(a) Program audit. Beginning on October 1, 2033, and every five years
thereafter,
the
producer
responsibility
organization
shall
conduct
an
independent third-party program audit of the operation of the stewardship plan.
The program audit shall examine how the product stewardship organization
compensates redemption centers as a part of its report. The audit shall make
recommendations to improve the operation of the collection program
established
by
this
chapter,
including
any
recommendation
to
the
compensation structure for redemption centers.
(b) Fiscal audit. Beginning on October 1, 2030, and annually thereafter,
the producer responsibility organization shall conduct an independent third-
party fiscal audit of the program. The fiscal audit shall provide a transparent
fiscal analysis of the producer responsibility organization, its expenditures, the
number of beverage containers collected, and the amount of unclaimed
deposits.
The audit shall also provide the redemption rate of beverage
containers redeemed in the State. The Secretary shall approve the audit results
and the redemption rate of beverage containers included in the audit.
(c)
Submission to Secretary.
The results of each audit required under
subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Secretary for
purposes of reviewing performance of the stewardship plan and for oversight
of the requirements of this chapter.


--- Page 54 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5001
§ 1534. BEVERAGE CONTAINER REDEMPTION RATE GOAL;
REPORT
(a) It is a goal of the State that the following minimum beverage container
redemption rates shall be satisfied by the specified dates:
(1) Beginning on July 1, 2030: 75 percent.
(2) Beginning on July 1, 2033: 80 percent.
(b)(1)
Beginning on December 1, 2030, and annually thereafter, the
Secretary of Natural Resources shall submit to the House Committees on
Environment and on Ways and Means and the Senate Committees on Natural
Resources and Energy and on Finance a written report containing the current
beverage container redemption rate in the State for the following two
categories of beverage containers:
(A) liquor bottles; and
(B) all other beverage containers.
(2)
Each annual report submitted under subdivision (1) of this
subsection shall include a recommendation of whether the beverage container
deposit for either of the beverage container categories should be increased to
improve redemption of that category of beverage container.
§ 1535. RULEMAKING
The Secretary may adopt rules, in accordance with 3 V.S.A. chapter 25,
necessary for the administration of this chapter.
§ 1536. ANTITRUST; CONDUCT AUTHORIZED
(a)
Activity
authorized.
A
manufacturer,
distributor,
group
of
manufacturers
or
distributors,
or
producer
responsibility
organization
implementing or participating in an approved collection plan under this
chapter for the collection, transport, processing, and management of beverage
container is individually or jointly immune from liability for conduct under
State laws relating to antitrust, restraint of trade, unfair trade practices, and
other regulation of trade or commerce under 9 V.S.A. chapter 63, subchapter 1
to the extent that the conduct is reasonably necessary to plan, implement, and
comply with the producer responsibility organization’s chosen system for
beverage containers.
(b) Limitations on antitrust activity. Subsection (a) of this section shall not
apply
to
an
agreement
among
manufacturers,
distributors,
groups
of
manufacturers
or
distributors,
retailers,
wholesalers,
or
the
producer
responsibility organization affecting the price of beverage containers or any


--- Page 55 ---
5002
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
agreement restricting the geographic area in which or customers to whom
beverage containers shall be sold.
Sec. 2. 10 V.S.A. § 1523 is amended to read:
§ 1523. ACCEPTANCE OF BEVERAGE CONTAINERS
(a) Except as provided in section 1522 of this title:
(1)
A retailer shall not refuse to accept from any person any empty
beverage containers, labeled in accordance with section 1524 of this title, of
the kind, size, and brand sold by the retailer, and a retailer or a redemption
center shall not refuse to pay to that person the refund value of a beverage
container as established by section 1522 of this title, except as provided in
subsections (b) or (c) of this section.
(2)
A manufacturer or distributor may The producer responsibility
organization shall not refuse to pick up from a retailer that sells its product or a
person operating a certified redemption center any point of redemption
included in the stewardship plan empty beverage containers, labeled in
accordance with section 1524 of this title, of the kind, size, and brand sold by
the manufacturer or distributor, or refuse to pay the retailer or a person
operating a redemption center point of redemption the refund value of a
beverage container as established by section 1522 of this title.
(b)(1) A retailer, with the prior approval of the Secretary, may refuse to
redeem beverage containers if a redemption center or centers are established
that serve the public need stewardship plan that meets the requirements of
section 1532 of this title has been implemented by the producer responsibility
organization in the State and the retailer’s building is less than 5,000 square
feet.
(2)
A manufacturer that sells directly to a consumer from a retail
location may refuse to redeem beverage containers if the retail location where
the manufacturer or distributor sells beverage containers is less than 5,000
square feet.
(c)
A retailer or a person operating a redemption center may point of
redemption or producer responsibility organization shall refuse to redeem
beverage containers that are not clean or, are broken and shall not redeem
beverage containers that, are not labeled in accordance with section 1524 of
this title, were known to have been purchased out of State, have already been
redeemed, or are not registered with the producer responsibility organization
pursuant to subsection 1531(d) of this title.


--- Page 56 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5003
Sec. 3. 10 V.S.A. § 7714 is amended to read:
§ 7714. TYPE 3 PROCEDURES
(a) Purpose; scope.
(1)
The purpose of this section is to establish the public notice and
comment requirements that the Department must follow when adopting
general permits, except for general permits governed by section 7712 of this
chapter, and when considering other permits listed in this section.
(2)
The procedures under this section shall be known as Type 3
Procedures. This section governs each of the following:
(A) Each general permit issued pursuant to the Secretary’s authority
under this title other than a general permit subject to section 7712 of this
chapter.
However, this section does not apply to a notice of intent under a
general permit.
(B)
Issuance of a dam safety order under chapter 43 of this title,
except for an unsafe dam order under section 1095 of this title.
(C) An application or request for approval of:
(i)
an aquatic nuisance control permit under chapter 50 of this
title;
(ii) a change in treatment for a public water supply under chapter
56 of this title;
(iii) a collection plan for mercury-containing lamps under section
7156 of this title;
(iv)
an individual plan for the collection and recycling of
electronic waste under section 7554 of this title;
(v) a primary battery stewardship plan under section 7586 of this
title;
(vi)
a covered household products collection plan under section
7813 of this title; and
(vii) a stewardship plan required under chapter 53 of this title.
(b)
Notice of application.
The Secretary shall provide notice of an
administratively complete application through the environmental notice
bulletin.


--- Page 57 ---
5004
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(c) Notice of draft decision; comment period. The Secretary shall provide
notice of the draft decision through the environmental notice bulletin and shall
post the draft decision to the bulletin. The Secretary shall provide a public
comment period.
(d) Public meeting. The Secretary shall hold a public meeting whenever
any person files a written request for such a meeting. The Secretary otherwise
may hold a public meeting at his or her the Secretary’s discretion.
(e) Notice of final decision. The Secretary shall provide notice of the final
decision through the environmental notice bulletin and shall post the final
decision to the bulletin. The Secretary shall provide a response to comments.
Sec. 4. 10 V.S.A. § 1388 is amended to read:
§ 1388. CLEAN WATER FUND
(a) There is created a special fund to be known as the Clean Water Fund to
be administered by the Secretary of Administration. The Fund shall consist of:
(1) revenues from the Property Transfer Tax surcharge established under
32 V.S.A. § 9602a;
(2)
other gifts, donations, and impact fees received from any source,
public or private, dedicated for deposit into the Fund and approved by the
Secretary of Administration;
(3) the unclaimed beverage container deposits (escheats) remitted to the
State under chapter 53 of this title, except as follows:
(A)
in State fiscal year 2030, the Secretary may transfer up to
$1,000,000.00 to the Solid Waste Management Assistance Account of the fund
created pursuant to section 6618 of this title for grants pursuant to subdivision
6618(b)(11) of this title;
(B)
in State fiscal year 2031, the Secretary may transfer up to
$1,000,000.00 to the Solid Waste Management Assistance Account of the fund
created pursuant to section 6618 of this title for grants pursuant to subdivision
6618(b)(11) of this title;
(C)
in State fiscal year 2032, the Secretary may transfer up to
$750,000.00 to the Solid Waste Management Assistance Account of the fund
created pursuant to section 6618 of this title for grants pursuant to subdivision
6618(b)(11) of this title; and
(D)
in State fiscal year 2033, the Secretary may transfer up to
$750,000.00 to the Solid Waste Management Assistance Account of the fund
created pursuant to section 6618 of this title for grants pursuant to subdivision
6618(b)(11) of this title;


--- Page 58 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5005
(4) six percent of the revenues from the meals and rooms taxes imposed
under 32 V.S.A. chapter 225; and
(5) other revenues dedicated for deposit into the Fund by the General
Assembly.
(b)
Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of 32 V.S.A. chapter 7,
subchapter 5, unexpended balances and any earnings shall remain in the Fund
from year to year.
Sec. 5. 10 V.S.A. § 6618 is amended to read:
§ 6618. WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE FUND
(a) There is hereby created in the State Treasury a fund to be known as the
Waste Management Assistance Fund to be expended by the Secretary of
Natural Resources. The Fund shall have three accounts: one for Solid Waste
Management Assistance, one for Hazardous Waste Management Assistance,
and one for Electronic Waste Collection and Recycling Assistance.
The
Hazardous Waste Management
Assistance Account
shall
consist
of
a
percentage of the tax on hazardous waste under the provisions of 32 V.S.A.
chapter 237, as established by the Secretary; the toxics use reduction fees
under subsection 6628(j) of this title; and appropriations of the General
Assembly.
In no event shall the amount of the hazardous waste tax that is
deposited to the Hazardous Waste Management Assistance Account exceed 40
percent of the annual tax receipts. The Solid Waste Management Assistance
Account shall consist of the franchise tax on waste facilities assessed under the
provisions of 32 V.S.A. chapter 151, subchapter 13; transfers from the Clean
Water Fund; and appropriations of the General Assembly.
The Electronic
Waste Collection and Recycling Account shall consist of the program and
implementation fees required under section 7553 of this title. All balances in
the Fund accounts at the end of any fiscal year shall be carried forward and
remain a part of the Fund accounts, except as provided in subsection (e) of this
section.
Interest earned by the Fund shall be deposited into the appropriate
Fund account. Disbursements from the Fund accounts shall be made by the
State Treasurer on warrants drawn by the Commissioner of Finance and
Management.
(b)
The Secretary may authorize disbursements from the Solid Waste
Management Assistance Account for the purpose of enhancing solid waste
management in the State in accordance with the adopted waste management
plan. This includes:
* * *


--- Page 59 ---
5006
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(11)
The Secretary shall enter a grant agreement with the producer
responsibility organization approved under chapter 53 of this title for bottle
bill implementation. The grant shall be for four years and reimburse the cost
of equipment and improvements to infrastructure documented by the producer
responsibility organization in its approved stewardship plan. Grants shall be
limited as follows: in fiscal year 2030, not more than $1,000,000.00; in fiscal
year 2031, not more than $1.000,000.00; in fiscal year 2032, not more than
$750,000.00; and in fiscal year 2033, not more than $750,000.00.
Sec. 6. AGENCY OF NATURAL RESOURCES REPORT;
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF STEWARDSHIP PLAN FOR
REDEMPTION OF BEVERAGE CONTAINERS
On or before January 1, 2030, the Secretary of Natural Resources shall
submit to the House Committee on Environment and the Senate Committee on
Natural Resources and Energy a report on the status of the implementation of a
stewardship plan for the redemption of beverage containers by the producer
responsibility organization required under 10 V.S.A. chapter 53.
The report
shall:
(1)
summarize the approved stewardship plan for redemption of
beverage contains, including how the plan complied with the statutory
requirements
for
convenience
of
collection
for
consumers
and
fair
compensation for points of redemption;
(2) describe how the producer responsibility organization has updated or
plans to implement redemption technologies to modernize redemption services
and improve the convenience and efficiency of redemption services in the
State; and
(3) provide any other information that the Secretary deems relevant to
the implementation and administration of the stewardship plan for redemption
of beverage containers.
Sec. 7. 10 V.S.A. § 1532(a)(2) is amended to read:
(2) Fair operation and compensation to redemption centers. The plan
shall satisfy all of the following requirements:
(A) The plan shall describe how all locations that redeem beverage
containers are fairly compensated for their participation in the collection
program provided that the producer responsibility organization shall pay each
location that redeems beverage containers:
(i)
four and one-half cents per container for all other means of
redemption at a location; or


--- Page 60 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5007
(ii)
according to a separate compensation agreement negotiated
between a redemption location or a group of redemption locations that
redeems beverage containers and the producer responsibility organization.
The producer responsibility organization and a redemption location or groups
of redemption locations shall negotiate how the redemption location or
locations shall be compensated for collection of containers under the plan.
* * *
Sec. 8. REPEALS
(a) In Sec. 1 of this act, 10 V.S.A. § 1529 (redemption center certification)
is repealed on March 1, 2029.
(b) In Sec. 5 of this act, 10 V.S.A. § 6618(b)(11) (producer responsibility
implementation grants) is repealed on October 1, 2033.
(c) 10 V.S.A. § 1528 (beverage registration) is repealed on March 1, 2029.
Sec. 9. 10 V.S.A. § 7182 is amended to read:
§ 7182. SALE OF COVERED HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS;
STEWARDSHIP ORGANIZATION REGISTRATION;
MANUFACTURER REGISTRATION
* * *
(b) Stewardship organization registration requirements.
(1) On or before July 1, 2025, a stewardship organization shall file a
registration form with the Secretary.
The Secretary shall provide the
registration form to the stewardship organization. The registration form shall
include:
(A)
a description of how the stewardship organization meets the
requirements of subsection 7184(b) of this title, including any reasonable
requirements for participation in the stewardship organization; and
(B)
the name, address, and contact information of a person for a
nonmember manufacturer to contact regarding how to participate in the
stewardship organization to satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
(2)
Beginning on July 1, 2026 2028, and annually thereafter, a
stewardship organization shall renew its registration with the Secretary.
A
renewal registration shall include the following:
(A)
a list of the manufacturers participating in the stewardship
organization;
(B)
a list of the brands of each manufacturer participating in the
stewardship organization;


--- Page 61 ---
5008
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(C)
a list of the covered household hazardous products of each
manufacturer participating in the stewardship organization;
(D)
the name, address, and contact information of a person
responsible for ensuring compliance with this chapter;
(E)
a description of how the stewardship organization meets the
requirements of subsection 7184(b) of this title, including any reasonable
requirements for participation in the stewardship organization; and
(F)
the name, address, and contact information of a person for a
nonmember manufacturer to contact regarding how to participate in the
stewardship organization to satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
* * *
Sec. 10. 10 V.S.A. § 7183 is amended to read:
§ 7183. COLLECTION PLANS
(a) Collection plan required. On or before July 1, 2026, any stewardship
organization registered with the Secretary as representing manufacturers of
covered household hazardous products shall coordinate and submit to the
Secretary for review one collection plan for all manufacturers a collection plan
that addresses how covered household hazardous products enrolled in that plan
meet the requirements of this chapter.
* * *
Sec. 11. 10 V.S.A. § 7187 is amended to read:
§ 7187. AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
(a) Review and approve collection plans. The Secretary shall review and
approve or deny collection plans submitted under section 7183 of this title
according to the public notice and comment requirements of section 7714 of
this title.
* * *
(h)
Reimbursement of Agency oversight costs.
The stewardship
organization shall reimburse the Secretary for the costs of overseeing the
administration of the program under this chapter as follows:
(1)
The Secretary shall annually provide an estimate of the costs of
overseeing the administration of the household hazardous products collection
program to the stewardship organization, including staff costs, compliance,
and oversight of the system.
(2)
The stewardship organization shall provide any comments to the
Secretary’s budget within 30 days following receipt. The Agency of Natural


--- Page 62 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5009
Resources shall respond to all comments provided by the stewardship
organization and may make changes to its budget in response to those
comments.
These comments and the responses shall be provided to the
General Assembly as a part of the Secretary’s budget.
(3)
Reimbursement of Agency of Natural Resources costs under this
subsection shall be subject to the State budgeting process, and the stewardship
organization shall not be required to reimburse any Agency cost unless that
cost is approved as a part of the Agency’s budget.
Sec. 12. TRANSITION
(a) Beginning on July 1, 2027, a group of manufacturers may register a
new stewardship organization covering a class of household hazardous
products and their packages when collected together. There shall be only one
stewardship organization per class of products; however, there may be more
than one stewardship program administering the requirements of 10 V.S.A.
chapter 164B.
(b)
Beginning on July 1, 2027, an approved stewardship organization
covering a class of household hazardous products may submit a plan for the
products covered by that approved stewardship organization. In addition to the
elements covered by 10 V.S.A. § 7183, the plan shall describe any transition
from the previously approved plan.
The Secretary shall have 120 days to
review and approve or reject any plan submitted under this section. That plan
shall take effect on or before July 1, 2030.
Sec. 13. EFFECTIVE DATES
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026, except that:
(1) in Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 1524(c) (requiring a UPC label on containers)
shall take effect on July 1, 2027;
(2)
in Sec. 1, 10 V.S.A. § 1531(a) (prohibiting sale or distribution
without participating in the producer responsibility organization) shall take
effect on July 1, 2027;
(3) Sec. 2 (acceptance of beverage containers after plan implementation)
shall take effect on March 1, 2029;
(4) in Sec. 5, 10 V.S.A. § 6618(b)(11) (capital implementation grants)
shall take effect on July 1, 2029; and
(5)
Sec. 7 (repeal of handling fees under the beverage container
stewardship plan) shall take effect on July 1, 2030.
Which proposal of amendment was considered and concurred in.


--- Page 63 ---
5010
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration;
Senate Proposal of Amendment to House Proposal of Amendment
Concurred in
S. 328
Appearing on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney,
the rules were suspended and Senate bill, entitled
An act relating to housing and common interest communities
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate concurred in the House proposal of amendment with further
proposal of amendment thereto as follows:
First: In Sec. 3, 10 V.S.A. § 10, by striking out subsection (a) in its entirety
and inserting in lieu thereof a new subsection (a) to read as follows:
(a) Notwithstanding any provision of 32 V.S.A. § 433(a) to the contrary,
the Vermont State Treasurer shall have the authority to establish a credit
facility of up to 10 12.5 percent of the State’s average cash balance on terms
acceptable to the Treasurer and consistent with prudent investment principles
and guidelines pursuant to 32 V.S.A. § 433(b)–(c)(b) and (c) and the Uniform
Prudent Investor Act, 14A V.S.A. chapter 9.
Second:
In Sec. 4, off-site construction accelerator pilot, in subdivision
(c)(2),
after
the
words
“Department
of
Housing
and
Community
Development” by inserting “, the Vermont Economic Progress Council,”
Third:
In Sec. 6, 10 V.S.A. § 699, by striking out subsection (a) in its
entirety
Fourth: In Sec. 8, 24 V.S.A. § 4382, in subdivision (a)(10), by inserting
“, labor,” after the word “regulatory”
Fifth: By striking out Sec. 9, 24 V.S.A. § 4412, in its entirety and inserting
in lieu thereof a new Sec. 9 to read as follows:
Sec. 9. 24 V.S.A. § 4412 is amended to read:
§ 4412. REQUIRED PROVISIONS AND PROHIBITED EFFECTS
Notwithstanding any existing bylaw, the following land development
provisions shall apply in every municipality:
(1) Equal treatment of housing and required provisions for affordable
housing.
* * *


--- Page 64 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5011
(B)
Except as provided in subdivisions 4414(1)(E) and (F) of this
title, no bylaw shall have the effect of excluding mobile homes, modular
housing, manufactured housing, or prefabricated housing from any district that
allows year-round residential development in the municipality, except upon the
same terms and conditions as conventional housing is excluded.
A
municipality may establish specific site standards in the bylaws to regulate
individual sites within preexisting mobile home parks with regard to distances
between structures and other standards as necessary to ensure public health,
safety, and welfare, provided the standards do not have the effect of
prohibiting the replacement of mobile homes on existing lots.
* * *
(D)
Bylaws shall designate appropriate districts and reasonable
regulations for multiunit or multifamily dwellings. No bylaw shall have the
effect of excluding these multiunit or multifamily dwellings from the
municipality. In any district that allows year-round residential development,
duplexes shall be an allowed a permitted use with dimensional standards that
are not more restrictive than is required for a single-unit dwelling, including
no additional land or lot area than would be required for a single-unit dwelling.
In any district that is served by municipal sewer and water infrastructure that
allows residential development, multiunit dwellings with four or fewer units
shall be a permitted use on the same size lot as a single-unit dwelling, unless
that district specifically requires multiunit structures to have more than four
dwelling units.
(E) Except for flood hazard and fluvial erosion area bylaws adopted
pursuant to section 4424 of this title, no bylaw shall have the effect of
excluding as a permitted use one accessory dwelling unit that is located within
or appurtenant to a single-family dwelling on an owner-occupied lot. A bylaw
shall require a single-family dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit to be
subject to the same review, dimensional, or other controls as required for a
single-family dwelling without an accessory dwelling unit.
The criteria for
conversion of an existing detached nonresidential building to habitable space
for an accessory dwelling unit shall not be more restrictive than the criteria
used for a single-family dwelling without an accessory dwelling unit.
* * *
(15) No bylaw shall require a duplex to be constructed on an owner-
occupied lot.


--- Page 65 ---
5012
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Sixth: By adding a new section to be Sec. 9a to read as follows:
Sec. 9a. 24 V.S.A. § 4412 is amended to read:
§ 4412. REQUIRED PROVISIONS AND PROHIBITED EFFECTS
Notwithstanding any existing bylaw, the following land development
provisions shall apply in every municipality:
(1) Equal treatment of housing and required provisions for affordable
housing.
* * *
(D)
Bylaws shall designate appropriate districts and reasonable
regulations for multiunit or multifamily dwellings. No bylaw shall have the
effect of excluding these multiunit or multifamily dwellings from the
municipality. In any district that allows year-round residential development,
duplexes shall be a permitted use with dimensional standards that are not more
restrictive than is required for a single-unit dwelling, including no additional
land or lot area than would be required for a single-unit dwelling.
In any
district that is served by municipal sewer and water infrastructure that allows
residential development, multiunit dwellings with four or fewer units shall be a
permitted use on the same size lot as a single-unit dwelling, unless that district
specifically requires multiunit structures to have more than four dwelling units.
* * *
(15) No bylaw shall require a duplex to be constructed on an owner-
occupied lot. [Repealed.]
Seventh: By adding a reader assistance heading and new section to be Sec.
9b to read as follows:
* * * State Community Investment Program * * *
Sec. 9b. 24 V.S.A. § 5803 is amended to read:
§ 5803. DESIGNATION OF DOWNTOWN AND VILLAGE CENTERS
* * *
(f) Benefits Steps. A center may receive the benefits associated with the
steps in this section by meeting the established requirements. The Department
shall review applications from municipalities to advance from Step One to
Two and from Step Two to Three and issue written decisions. The Department
shall issue a written administrative decision within 30 days following an
application.
If a municipal application is rejected by the Department, the
municipality may appeal the administrative decision to the State Board.
To
maintain a downtown approved under chapter 76A after December 31, 2026,


--- Page 66 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5013
the municipality shall apply for renewal following a regional planning
approval by the LURB and meet the program requirements.
Step Three
designations that are not approved for renewal revert to Step Two.
The
municipality may appeal the administrative decision of the Department to the
State Board. Appeals of administrative decisions shall be heard by the State
Board at the next meeting following a timely filing stating the reasons for the
appeal.
The State Board’s decision is final.
The Department shall issue
guidance to administer these steps.
* * *
(2) Step Two.
(A)
Requirements.
Step Two is established to create a mid-level
designation for villages throughout the State to increase planning and
implementation capacity for community-scale projects. A center reaches Step
Two if it:
* * *
(iv) a portion of the center is listed or eligible for listing in the
National Register of Historic Places, unless recognized by the program as a
preexisting designated new town center.
* * *
(3) Step Three.
(A) Requirements. Step Three is established to create an advanced
designation for downtowns throughout the State to create mixed-use centers
and join the Vermont Downtown Program. A center reaches Step Three if the
Department finds that it meets the following requirements:
* * *
(ii) Is A portion of the center is listed or eligible for listing in the
National Register of Historic Places, unless recognized by the program as a
preexisting designated new town center.
* * *
Eighth:
In Sec. 10, Office of Legislative Counsel; common interest
community report, by striking out subsection (a) in its entirety and inserting in
lieu thereof a new subsection (a) to read as follows:
(a)
On or before November 15, 2026, the Office of Legislative Counsel
shall provide a written report to the House Committee on General and Housing
and the Senate Committee on Economic Development, Housing and General


--- Page 67 ---
5014
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Affairs outlining any legal, conventional financing, and funding compliance
issues related to requiring common interest communities to:
(1) authorize leasing of residential units;
(2) authorize commercial purposes within a dwelling unit;
(3) permit the construction of accessory dwelling units on land reserved
for the exclusive use of a unit owner; and
(4)
permit the installation and use of vegetable gardens within a unit
owner’s designated exclusive use space.
Ninth: By striking out Sec. 14, effective date, and its accompanying reader
assistance heading in their entireties and inserting in lieu thereof a new reader
assistance heading and new Sec. 14 to read as follows:
* * * Effective Dates * * *
Sec. 14. EFFECTIVE DATES
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026, except that Sec. 9a shall take
effect on January 1, 2028.
Which proposal of amendment was considered and concurred in.
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration; Senate Proposal of
Amendment Concurred in
H. 542
Pending entry on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of
Poultney, the rules were suspended and House bill, entitled
An act relating to terminating testing of schools in Vermont
for
polychlorinated biphenyls
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate proposed to the House to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. 2021 Acts and Resolves No. 74, Sec. E.709.1, as amended by 2022
Acts and Resolves No. 166, Sec. 8, and 2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78, Sec.
C.111, is further amended to read:
Sec. E.709.1 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINGENCY FUND;
POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) TESTING
IN SCHOOLS
(a)
Notwithstanding 10 V.S.A. § 1283, of the funds transferred in
Sec. D.101(a) of this act to the Environmental Contingency Fund, the


--- Page 68 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5015
Department
of
Environmental
Conservation,
in
consultation
with
the
Department of Health and the Agency of Education, shall use up to $4,500,000
to complete air indoor quality testing for Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) in
public schools and approved and recognized independent schools that were
constructed or renovated before 1980. All schools subject to this subsection
shall test for PCBs on or before July 1, 2027 August 1, 2035.
Sec. 2. 10 V.S.A. § 6618a is added to read:
§ 6618a. SCHOOL POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYL PROGRAM FUND
(a) There is created the School Polychlorinated Biphenyl Program Fund to
be administered by the Secretary of Natural Resources to provide funding for
the investigation, mitigation, and remediation of polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) at schools in Vermont. The Fund shall consist of:
(1) Reimbursements from a school for work related to a grant issued by
the State for PCB investigation, mitigation, and remediation when that school
recovers money from litigation or other awards. The reimbursement shall be
limited to the amount of the grant awarded to the school or the amount of the
recovery, whichever is less.
(2) Any litigation recovery by the State for the costs of addressing PCB
contamination in schools, less attorney’s fees and costs.
(3) Monies from time to time transferred to the Fund by the General
Assembly.
(4) Other gifts, donations, or other monies received from any source,
public or private, dedicated for deposit into the Fund and approved by the
Secretary of Administration.
(b)(1) The Secretary of Natural Resources shall administer a program to
issue grants to school districts to pay the costs, to the extent funds are
available, of the following activities in order of the priority listed:
(A)(i) PCB investigations that are a part of a facilities master plan; or
(ii) indoor air quality testing of a school initiated voluntarily by a
school district, provided that the school district notified the Secretary of
Natural Resources of the testing and the school district conducts the testing
according to the Department of Environmental Conservation’s standards for
testing;
(B) the development of PCB management plans;
(C) the costs of mitigation when results exceed the immediate action
level;


--- Page 69 ---
5016
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(D) the costs of implementing any approved corrective action plan
when, after mitigation efforts, the concentrations in the school exceed the
immediate action level; and
(E) the costs of implementing a corrective action plan as a part of a
school construction project.
(2) To the extent that funds are available, grants to school districts that
are required to conduct investigation, mitigation, or remediation of PCB
contamination in a school after Agency of Natural Resources testing shall be in
an amount sufficient to pay for 100 percent of the costs at the school of
investigation, remediation, or removal required by the Agency of Natural
Resources Investigation and Remediation of Contaminated Properties Rule.
(c)
Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of 32 V.S.A. chapter 7,
subchapter 5, unexpended balances and interest earned by the Fund shall be
retained in the Fund from year to year.
(d) If a school district in the State recovers money from litigation or other
award for work covered under a grant issued under this section, the school
district shall reimburse the State the amount of the recovery or the amount of
the grant awarded to the school district under subsection (b) of this section,
whichever amount is less.
(e)
In addition to any other remedy, the State may recover from a
manufacturer of PCBs monies expended or awarded by the State for PCB
investigation, testing, assessment, remediation, or removal of PCBs in a school
above the relevant action level.
Sec. 3. 16 V.S.A. § 3445 is amended to read:
§ 3445. APPROVAL AND FUNDING OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS
(a) Construction aid.
(1)
Preliminary application for construction aid.
A school district
eligible for assistance under section 3447 of this title that intends to construct
or purchase a new school, or make extensive additions or alterations to its
existing school, and desires to avail itself of State school construction aid shall
submit a written preliminary application to the Secretary.
A preliminary
application shall include information required by the Agency by rule and shall
specify the need for and purpose of the project.


--- Page 70 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5017
(2) Approval of preliminary application.
(A)
When reviewing a preliminary application for approval, the
Secretary shall consider:
(i) regional educational opportunities and needs, including school
building
capacities
across
school
district
boundaries,
and
available
infrastructure in neighboring communities;
(ii) economic efficiencies;
(iii)
the suitability of an existing school building to continue to
meet educational needs; and
(iv) statewide educational initiatives.
(B) The Secretary may approve a preliminary application if:
(i)(I) the project or part of the project fulfills a need occasioned
by:
(aa) conditions that threaten the health or safety of students
or employees;
(bb)
facilities that are inadequate to provide programs
required by State or federal law or regulation;
(cc)
excessive energy use resulting from the design of a
building or reliance on fossil fuels or electric space heat; or
(dd) deterioration of an existing building; or
(II) the project results in consolidation of two or more school
buildings and will serve the educational needs of students in a more cost-
effective and educationally appropriate manner as compared to individual
projects constructed separately;
(ii) the need addressed by the project cannot reasonably be met by
another means;
(iii) the proposed type, kind, quality, size, and estimated cost of
the project are suitable for the proposed curriculum and meet all legal
standards;
(iv) the applicant achieves the level of “proficiency” in the school
district quality standards regarding facilities management adopted by rule by
the Agency; and
(v)
the applicant has completed a facilities master planning
process that:
(I) engages robust community involvement;


--- Page 71 ---
5018
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(II) considers regional solutions;
(III) evaluates environmental contaminants; and
(IV) produces a facilities master plan that unites the applicant’s
vision statement, educational needs, enrollment projections, renovation needs,
and construction projects; and
(vi) if the applicant school district is applying for construction aid
for a school building that was constructed or renovated before 1980, the
applicant has completed indoor air quality testing for polychlorinated
biphenyls that was conducted according to the Department of Environmental
Conservation’s standards for testing.
(3)
Priorities.
Following approval of a preliminary application and
provided that the district has voted funds or authorized a bond for the total
estimated cost of a project, the Agency, with the advice of the State Aid for
School Construction Advisory Board, shall assign points to the project as
prescribed by rule of the Agency so that the project can be placed on a priority
list based on the number of points received.
* * *
Sec. 4. AGENCY OF NATURAL RESOURCES REPORT ON FUNDING
FOR PCB TESTING OF SCHOOLS
On or before January 15, 2027, the Agency of Natural Resources, in
consultation with the Agency of Education, shall submit to the Senate
Committee on Education and the House Committee on Education:
(1) an estimate of the additional cost to the State to complete testing,
mitigation, and remediation for polychlorinated biphenyls at public schools
and approved and recognized independent schools that were constructed or
renovated before 1980; and
(2)
a plan to fund the costs estimated necessary to complete testing,
mitigation, and remediation.
Sec. 5. REPEAL
2023 Acts and Resolves No. 78, Sec. C.112(b)(1) and (2) (State funding of
grants for investigation, remediation, and removal of PCB contamination at a
school) is repealed.
Sec. 6. EFFECTIVE DATES
This act shall take effect on passage, except that Sec. 3 (approval and
funding of school construction projects) shall take effect on July 2, 2026.


--- Page 72 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5019
and that after passage the title of the bill be amended to read:
“An act
relating to testing of schools in Vermont for polychlorinated biphenyls”
Which proposal of amendment was considered and concurred in.
Recess
At four o'clock and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker declared
a recess until the fall of the gavel.
Message from the Senate No. 70
A message was received from the Senate by Ms. Gradel, its Assistant
Secretary, as follows:
Madam Speaker:
I am directed to inform the House that:
The Senate has considered a bill originating in the House of the following
title:
H. 567. An act relating to unclaimed property, State retirement systems,
and capital debt.
And has passed the same in concurrence.
The Senate has considered House proposals of amendment to Senate
proposals of amendment to House bill of the following title:
H. 294.
An act relating to telecommunications services and wages in
correctional facilities.
H. 935. An act relating to emergency management.
H. 942. An act relating to miscellaneous agricultural subjects.
And has passed the same in concurrence with proposals of amendment in
the adoption of which the concurrence of the House is requested.
The Senate has considered the report of the Committee of Conference upon
the disagreeing votes of the two Houses upon House bill of the following title:
H. 952. An act relating to capital construction and State bonding budget
adjustment.
And has accepted and adopted the same on its part.


--- Page 73 ---
5020
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Called to Order
At five o'clock and fifty-four minutes in the afternoon, the Speaker called
the House to order.
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration; Amendment Offered;
Senate Proposal of Amendment Not Concurred in; Committee of
Conference Requested and Appointed; Rules Suspended, Messaged to the
Senate Forthwith
H. 710
Pending entry on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of
Poultney, the rules were suspended and House bill, entitled
An act relating to defining electricity generating facilities
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate proposed to the House to amend the bill by striking out all after
the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
Sec. 1. 30 V.S.A. § 8002 is amended to read:
§ 8002. DEFINITIONS
As used in this chapter:
* * *
(18)
“Plant” means an independent technical facility that generates
electricity from renewable energy. A group of facilities, such as wind turbines,
shall be considered one plant if the group is part of the same project and uses
common equipment and infrastructure such as roads, control facilities, and
connections to the electric grid. Common ownership, contiguity in time of
construction, and proximity of facilities to each other shall be relevant to
determining whether a group of facilities is part of the same project. Multiple
electricity-generating facilities, regardless of when each is constructed, shall be
considered one plant if the facilities use the same electricity-generating
technology and are located on the same parcel or contiguous parcels of land.
However, such facilities shall be considered separate plants if:
(A) the facilities are for individual net metering or self-consumption
and:
(i) are not located on the same parcel of land;
(ii)
are wired to offset consumption on separate billing meters;
and
(iii) supply different retail customers;


--- Page 74 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5021
(B) the facilities are for multi-owner individual net metering and:
(i)
are located on the same parcel of land where a common
interest community is located;
(ii)
are wired to offset consumption on separate billing meters;
and
(iii) supply different retail customers; or
(C) the facilities have separate points of interconnection and:
(i) a net-metering facility and a Standard Offer Program facility
are not sited on the same parcel or contiguous parcels; and
(ii) for facilities under each program, the total capacity located on
a parcel or contiguous parcels does not exceed the program’s statutory capacity
cap.
* * *
(33)
“Common interest community” means real estate described in a
declaration with respect to which a person, by virtue of the person’s ownership
of a unit, is obligated to pay for a share of real estate taxes on; insurance
premiums, maintenance, or improvement of; or services or other expenses
related to common elements, other units, or other real estate than the unit
described in the declaration.
(34)
“Contiguous” means sharing a property boundary with another
parcel of land or being adjacent to that parcel of land and the two parcels are
separated only by a road, recreation path, railway line, stream, or river.
(35)
“Electricity-generating technology” means a method or system
used to convert energy from one form into electric power, including wind,
hydropower or water, solar, or biomass.
(36) “Point of interconnection” means the point on the interconnecting
utility’s existing
distribution
system
to which
a
facility
proposes
to
interconnect.
Sec. 2. LEGISLATIVE INTENT
It is the intent of the General Assembly that the amendments in Sec. 1, 30
VSA 8002, of this act are substantive and create new rights and liabilities in
light of emerging issues and shall apply only to applications filed on or after
the effective date of this act.


--- Page 75 ---
5022
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Sec. 2a. PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL SOILS AND SOLAR REPORT
(a) On or before January 15, 2027, the Commissioner of Public Service,
after consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, Food and Markets, shall
report back on the following questions:
(1)
Over the last five years, how many acres of primary agricultural
soils have been developed for any purpose? What share of this development is
attributable to solar energy generation projects?
(2) How many acres of primary agricultural soils used for solar energy
generation development were directly impacted by the project, as opposed to
the acreage that is within the project’s area of disturbance?
(3) How many acres of primary agricultural soils developed for solar
energy generation were in active agricultural use immediately before
development, and what was the agricultural usage?
(4) How many acres of primary agricultural soils developed for solar
energy generation projects remain owned by farmers?
(5)
How many acres of trees have been cleared for solar energy
generation projects in this time frame, broken down by forest type?
(b) The Commissioner shall include in the report recommendations on how
to encourage the siting of solar energy generation on land that has already been
disturbed, including rooftops and parking lots, and potential financial
structures that would make solar energy generation on those sites more
financially feasible.
(c) The report shall be submitted to the House Committees on Agriculture,
Food Resiliency, and Forestry and on Energy and Digital Infrastructure and the
Senate Committees on Agriculture and on Natural Resources and Energy.
Sec. 3. 30 V.S.A. § 20 is amended to read:
§ 20. PARTICULAR PROCEEDINGS AND ACTIVITIES; PERSONNEL
(a)(1) The Commission or the Department of Public Service may authorize
or retain legal counsel, official stenographers, expert witnesses, advisors and
consultants, temporary employees, and other providers of research, scientific,
financial, economic, actuarial, accounting, or engineering services:
* * *
(F)
To investigate, review, plan, oversee, or carry out the
decommissioning and site restoration required by a certificate of public good
issued to an electric generation or energy storage facility.
* * *


--- Page 76 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5023
Sec. 4. 30 V.S.A. § 248e is added to read:
§ 248e. ELECTRIC GENERATION AND ENERGY STORAGE FACILITY
DECOMMISSIONING FUND
(a) There is created the Electric Generation and Energy Storage Facility
Decommissioning Fund that shall be a special fund created pursuant to 32
V.S.A. chapter 7, subchapter 5 and shall be administered by the Chair of the
Public Utility Commission. The Chair is authorized to collect surety fees for
the
Decommissioning
Fund
and
to
make
disbursements
from
the
Decommissioning Fund.
(b)
Deposits
to the
Decommissioning
Fund
shall
consist
of
all
decommissioning surety fees collected for electric generation and energy
storage facilities that have received a certificate of public good from the
Commission
and
all
monies
drawn
from
decommissioning
financial
instruments. The Commission shall deposit into the Decommissioning Fund
each decommissioning surety fee it receives under this subchapter.
(c) Disbursements from the Decommissioning Fund may be made by the
Chair to undertake actions that the Commission considers necessary to
investigate or mitigate, or both, the effects of an abandoned, nonoperational, or
disclaimed electric generation or energy storage facility. Disbursements under
this subsection may be made to:
(1)
pay costs to third parties who initiate or complete facility
decommissioning and site restoration where the holder of the certificate of
public good is unknown, cannot be contacted, is unwilling to take action, is
incapable of carrying out decommissioning or site restoration, or does not take
timely action as ordered by the Commission;
(2) investigate ownership of or ascertain the holder of the certificate of
public good for an electric generation or energy storage facility;
(3) take other appropriate remedial action;
(4) pay costs to persons retained by the Commission or the Department
under subdivision 20(a)(1)(F) of this title; or
(5) return portions of the decommissioning surety fees as determined by
a formula established by the Commission to individual certificate of public
good
holders
upon
satisfactory
completion
of
decommissioning
and
Commission approval.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Chair” means the Chair of the Public Utility Commission.
(2) “Commission” means the Public Utility Commission.


--- Page 77 ---
5024
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
(3) “Decommissioning” means to remove a facility safely from service
and to restore the site to its condition before the facility was installed
consistent with the facility’s certificate of public good and Commission rules
and orders.
(4) “Decommissioning Fund” means the Electric Generation and Energy
Storage Facility Decommissioning Fund established pursuant to this section.
(5) “Decommissioning surety fee” means the contribution assigned to a
facility and determined by a funding formula established by the Commission,
not to exceed the average cumulative cost of obtaining decommissioning
financial instruments for the life of a facility. The “average cumulative cost”
means the customary and reasonable market-based third-party costs; expenses
and fees associated with obtaining, maintaining, renewing, and updating
financial instruments; and staff and attorney time and expenses.
(6) “Department” means the Department of Public Service.
(e) Balances in the Decommissioning Fund shall be expended only for the
purposes authorized in this section and shall not be used for the general
obligations of government or for other governmental purposes. All balances in
the Decommissioning Fund at the end of any fiscal year shall be carried
forward and remain within the Decommissioning Fund. Interest earned by the
Decommissioning Fund shall be credited to the Decommissioning Fund.
(f)
The Commission shall have authority to adopt rules or issue orders
implementing this section.
(g) The Commission shall provide to the Treasurer of the State of Vermont
an annual accounting of the Decommissioning Fund.
Sec. 5. DECOMMISSIONING FUND REPORT
On or before February 15, 2027, the Public Utility Commission shall report
back to the House Committee on Energy and Digital Infrastructure and the
Senate Committees on Natural Resources and Energy and on Finance on the
formula established for the decommissioning surety fees pursuant to 30 V.S.A.
§ 248e.
Sec. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026.


--- Page 78 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5025
Pending the question, Shall the House concur in the Senate proposal of
amendment?, Rep. Burtt of Cabot moved that the House concur in the Senate
proposal of amendment with further proposal of amendment thereto by
striking out Sec. 6 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new Sec. 6 to
read as follows:
Sec. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE
This act shall take effect on July 1, 2026, except that Sec. 1, 30 V.S.A.
§ 8002, and Sec. 2, legislative intent, shall take effect on July 1, 2028.
Pending the question, Shall the House concur in the Senate proposal of
amendment with further proposal of amendment thereto as offered by Rep.
Burtt of Cabot?, Rep. Burtt of Cabot requested the vote be by division.
Thereupon, the amendment was disagreed to: Yeas, 42. Nays, 65.
Pending the question, Shall the House concur in the Senate proposal of
amendment?, Rep. Kleppner of Burlington moved that the House refuse to
concur and ask for a Committee of Conference, which was agreed to, and the
Speaker appointed as members of the Committee of Conference on the part of
the House:
Rep. James of Manchester
Rep. Sibilia of Dover
Rep. Kleppner of Burlington
On motion of Rep. McCoy of Poultney, the rules were suspended and
House action on the bill was ordered messaged to the Senate forthwith.
Rules Suspended, Immediate Consideration; Senate Proposal of
Amendment Concurred in
H. 294
Pending entry on the Notice Calendar, on motion of Rep. McCoy of
Poultney, the rules were suspended and House bill, entitled
An act relating to telecommunications services and wages in correctional
facilities
Was taken up for immediate consideration.
The Senate proposed to the House to amend the bill in Sec. 2, Department
of
Corrections;
evaluation
of
telecommunications
services;
report,
in
subsection (b), by striking out subdivision (4) in its entirety and by
renumbering the remaining subdivisions to be numerically correct.
Which proposal of amendment was considered and concurred in.


--- Page 79 ---
5026
JOURNAL OF THE HOUSE
Joint House Resolution Placed on Calendar
J.R.H. 12
Offered by House Committee on Rules
Joint resolution authorizing limited remote joint committee voting through
the remainder of calendar year 2026 and the application of the ADA thereto
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives:
That through the remainder of calendar year 2026, each member of a joint
committee is authorized to vote remotely in that committee for not more than
three days, and be it further
Resolved: Such a member shall notify the committee chair or co-chairs, as
applicable, and the committee clerk that the member is exercising this remote
voting authority, and shall count toward a committee quorum, and be it further
Resolved: The committee clerk shall record any vote cast by the member as
a remote vote, and shall track the number of days the member exercises this
remote voting authority, and be it further
Resolved:
That a member of a joint committee with a disability who is
physically present at the site of a joint committee meeting, but who cannot
access the joint committee meeting room due to the physical condition of the
site, may vote remotely from the site and count toward a committee quorum,
without using one of the member’s remote voting days provided by this
resolution, for cases in which the joint committee meeting cannot be moved to
an accessible onsite location.
Was read by title and placed on the Action Calendar on the next legislative
day pursuant to House Rule 52.
Committee of Conference Appointed
S. 208
Pursuant to the request of the Senate for a Committee of Conference on the
disagreeing votes of the two Houses on Senate bill, entitled
An act relating to standards for law enforcement identification
The Speaker appointed as members of the Committee of Conference on the
part of the House:
Rep. LaLonde of South Burlington
Rep. Dolan of Essex Junction
Rep. Goodnow of Brattleboro


--- Page 80 ---
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2026
5027
Adjournment
At six o'clock and sixteen minutes in the evening, on motion of Rep.
McCoy of Poultney, the House adjourned until tomorrow at nine o'clock and
thirty minutes in the forenoon.
