STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/Statement+of+Medical+Necessity+-+Selzentry.pdf/059a02d8-8bfe-ddd8-95c0-09b91a8641bd?t=1682352733033\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Arkansas Medicaid Medication Prescription Drug Program 
Selzentry® (maraviroc) Statement of Medical Necessity 
 
After completion of this form, fax to the Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Program. 
 
Fax this form to 1-800-424-5851 
For questions call 1-501-683-4120. 
Revision Date: 08/17/2023 
Arkansas Medicaid 
Page 1 of 3 
© 2020–2024 Prime Therapeutics Management LLC, a Prime Therapeutics LLC company 
 
If the following information is not complete, correct, or legible, the prior authorization (PA) 
process can be delayed. Please use one form per beneficiary. Information contained in this form 
is Protected Health Information under HIPAA. 
BENEFICIARY INFORMATION 
Beneficiary Last Name:  
 
Beneficiary First Name:  
 
Medicaid ID Number:  
 Date of Birth:  
 
PRESCRIBER INFORMATION 
Prescriber Last Name:  
 
Prescriber First Name:   
 
Prescriber NPI:  
 DEA Number:  
 
Prescriber Phone:  
 Prescriber Fax:  
 
DRUG INFORMATION 
Drug Name: Selzentry 
Drug Strength: 
 150 mg 
 300 mg 
SELZENTRY is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of only 
CCR5-tropic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in adult and pediatric 
patients weighing at least 2 kg. Limitations of Use: SELZENTRY is not recommended in patients 
with dual/mixed- or CXCR4-tropic HIV-1. 
Note: Medicaid Preapproval for Trofile® Assay testing requires meeting requirements in Part 1; 
prior approval for the drug maraviroc requires meeting requirements in Part 1 and Part 3. 
PART 1: INITIAL APPROVAL CRITERIA 
Use of maraviroc for treatment-experienced or treatment-naïve patient (Please check all that 
apply; all must be true for patient to be eligible): 
1. 
 Under the care of an experienced HIV practitioner; and 
2. 
 Evidence of virologic failure (documented by viral load > 1,000 copies/mL not related to 
non-adherence to prescribed ARV); and 
3. 
 Unable to construct a multi-drug regimen from preferred°, alternative*, or acceptable^ 
regimens as defined by the Department of Health and Human Services Guidelines for Use of 
Antiretroviral Agents in HIV-1-Infected Adults and Adolescents2 that includes at least two 
additional active antiretroviral drug in addition to maraviroc. 
°Preferred Regimens (Regimens with optimal and durable efficacy, favorable tolerability and 
toxicity profile, and ease of use.) 
*Alternative Regimens (Regimens that are effective and tolerable but have potential 
disadvantages compared with preferred regimens. An alternative regimen may be the preferred 
regimen for some patients.) 
Print
Reset


--- Page 2 ---
Beneficiary’s Name:  
 
Arkansas Medicaid PA Form: Selzentry® (maraviroc) 
Page 2 of 2 
PART 1: INITIAL APPROVAL CRITERIA (CONTINUED) 
^Acceptable Regimens (CI) (Regimens that may be selected for some patients but are less 
satisfactory than preferred or alternative regimens.) 
PART 2: MEDICAID APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TROFILE® ASSAY TEST 
This section to be completed by AR Medicaid only. 
Does the Patient meet criteria stated in Part 1 above? 
 
 Yes 
 No 
If patient meets Part 1 criteria, Medicaid Utilization Review will be notified that patient meets 
Medicaid criteria for proceeding with Trofile® Assay Test. 
 
A highly sensitive tropism assay at baseline is required prior to initiation of maraviroc; the 
results of the tropism assay may take approximately 3 weeks and a prescription for 
maraviroc should not be written until the results indicate only CCR5 tropism.  
 
Prior approval from Medicaid is required for a repeat tropism assay. A repeat tropism assay 
should only be performed if the provider is considering a change of treatment due to 
increasing VL and/or decreasing CD4 count. If CXCR4 or DM virus is detected during 
therapy, the PA for maraviroc will be discontinued. In failing patients who have CCR5 virus, a 
maraviroc resistance assay may also be necessary. 
PART 3: APPROVAL OR DENIAL FOR SELZENTRY® (MARAVIROC) 
1. Does the patient have confirmed infection with only CCR5 tropic virus as determined by 
Trofile® Assay Test result screening prior to maraviroc initiation? (Copy of lab test results 
required as part of the manual review process.) 
 Yes 
 No 
2. The prior approval is NDC and dose specific. AR Medicaid will allow up to a maximum of 1200 
mg/day in the following dosing regimens. 
Please indicate intended dose*: 
 150 mg tablet, 1 tablet twice daily 
 300 mg tablet, 1 tablet twice daily 
 300 mg tablet, 2 tablets twice daily 
*Caution and/or dosing adjustments may be warranted in patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment. Please refer to prescribing information in manufacturer’s package insert for dosing 
and contraindications. 
 Attachments 
Prescriber Signature:  
 Date:  
 
Prescriber’s original signature required; copied, stamped, or e-signature are not allowed.  
By signature, the prescriber confirms the above information is accurate and verifiable by patient records. 
Fax: 1-800-424-7976 
For questions call: 1-501-424-7895. 
SIGN\n