STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/Statement+of+Medical+Necessity+-+Ingrezza+and+Austedo.pdf/0cca6750-eb80-bbff-577d-6cc75e063629?t=1682362022720\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Statement of Medical Necessity Information Form 
for INGREZZA® (valbenazine) or AUSTEDO® (deutetrabenazine) 
Fax the completed form requesting Ingrezza® or Austedo® and chart notes to 
Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Unit for review. 
 
 
Fax: 1-800-424-5851 
 
For questions call: 501-683-4120 
Revision Date: 6/16/2023 
Arkansas Medicaid 
© 2024 Prime Therapeutics Management LLC, a Prime Therapeutics LLC company  
Page 1 of 2 
If the following information is not complete, correct, or legible, the prior authorization (PA) process 
can be delayed. Please use one form per beneficiary. Information contained in this form is 
Protected Health Information under HIPAA. 
BENEFICIARY INFORMATION 
Beneficiary Last Name:  
 
Beneficiary First Name:  
 
Medicaid ID:  
 Beneficiary’s Date of Birth:  
 
Street Address:  
 
City:  
 State:  
 Zip:  
 
PRESCRIBER INFORMATION 
Prescriber Last Name:  
 
 
Prescriber First Name:   
 
Prescriber NPI:  
 DEA #:  
 
Specialty:  
 Prescriber Medicaid ID:  
 
Street Address:  
 
City:  
 State:  
 Zip:  
 
Prescriber Phone:  
 Prescriber Fax:  
 
Contact Person (if additional info needed):  
 
DRUG INFORMATION 
 Initial Request 
 Renewal Request 
Drug Name:  
 Drug Strength:  
 
Drug Form:  
 Quantity:  
 
Dosing:  
 
Diagnosis:  
 
 
Print
Reset


--- Page 2 ---
Patient’s Full Name:  
 
Arkansas Medicaid Statement of Medical Necessity: Ingrezza® or Austedo® 
Page 2 of 2 
In order to complete the review for the requested prior authorization (PA), all questions 
must be completed on this form and the prescriber is required to submit chart notes with 
this completed form. 
CRITERIA 
1. List any oral, facial, and lingual dyskinesia symptoms observed: 
 
 
2. List any dyskinesia symptoms of the limbs observed: 
 
 
3. List any dyskinesia symptoms of the neck and trunk observed: 
 
 
4. Do any of the dyskinesia symptoms observed interfere with activities or functions of daily 
living? If so, list all that apply and describe interference: 
 
 
5. List all known past dopamine receptor blocking agents (e.g., antipsychotic agents or 
metoclopramide) and length of therapy of each: 
 
 
6. List any recent changes to antipsychotic drug therapy the patient is receiving: 
 
 
7. List all currently prescribed medications and dose: 
 Attachments 
Prescriber Signature:  
 Date:  
 
(Prescriber’s original signature required; copied, stamped, or e-signature are not 
allowed.) This signature certifies that the information provided in the Statement of 
Medical Necessity is accurate and substantiated by the patient’s medical records. The 
prescriber also agrees that Medicaid may audit this patient’s medical records to ascertain the 
medical necessity for accuracy of data submitted. 
Prescriber Last Name:  
 
Prescriber First Name:  
 
Fax the completed form requesting Ingrezza® or Austedo® and chart notes to 
Fax: 1-800-424-5851 
SIGN\n