STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/pdlStatinsFDCPhyperlipid.pdf/cc3e118f-a85d-a80a-42d7-2db9a5ecb47b?t=1682101059449\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us 
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year 
 
Division of Medical Services 
 
Arkansas Medicaid Evidence-Based 
Prescription Drug Program 
 
501-526-4200 · Fax: 501-526-4188 · WATS 866-250-2518 
 
 
June 16, 2014 
 
Subject:  Evidenced-Based Prescription Drug List (PDL) re-review of HMG-CoA 
Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) and Fixed-dose Combination Products Containing a Statin:   
Atorvastatin (Lipitor®); Fluvastatin (Lescol®); Fluvastatin extended release (Lescol XL®); Lovastatin 
(Mevacor®); Lovastatin extended release (Altoprev®); Pravastatin (Pravachol®); Rosuvastatin 
(Crestor®); Simvastatin (Zocor®); Pitavastatin (Livalo®); Lovastatin/niacin extended release (Advicor®); 
Simvastatin/ ezetimibe (Vytorin®); Simvastatin/niacin extended release (Simcor®); 
 
The following medications have been ADDED to the PREFERRED status agent in the statin drug class: 
atorvastatin. The status change to preferred status for this agent is effective immediately.  
However, until the system changes can be updated on June 16, 2014 to allow these claims to go 
through at point of sale, please call the PDL PA Call Center to request this medication.  The 
medications that will continue as preferred status agents in this drug class are: pravastatin and 
simvastatin. 
 
Clinical edits, dose edits, and therapeutic duplication edits may apply to the medications in this drug 
class.  Please refer to the Medicaid pharmacy program website at 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClinicalEdits  and 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClaimEdits for details on 
these point-of-sale (POS) prior authorization criteria edits. 
 
Non-preferred agents in the statin drug class will reject at point-of-sale.   If the prescriber believes that a 
non-preferred product is medically necessary and the patient does not meet applicable POS edits, the 
prescriber must contact the PDL Prior Authorization (PA) Call Center (see phone number above) to speak 
directly with a clinical pharmacist and may also submit written documentation of medical necessity to a 
physician at the PDL PA Call Center concerning the request for a non-preferred status drug. After a PA 
request is approved and entered into the system, the pharmacy can fill the prescription and submit the 
claim.      
 
This advance notice is to provide you the opportunity to contact, counsel, and change patients on less 
proven or less cost-effective medicines to the Arkansas Medicaid-preferred drug. If you are an Arkansas 
Medicaid provider and have prescriptions attributed to your provider ID number by the dispensing 
pharmacy, we are attaching a list of those patients who have been identified as receiving prescriptions for 
drugs that are not on the preferred drug list in the referenced class. If you are not currently prescribing the 
referenced drug(s) or are not prescribing drugs in the referenced class(es), this provider notice is being 
submitted to you for informational purposes only. 
 
Note: You are reminded that protected health information (PHI) may not be disclosed. Therefore 
you are advised to redact all PHI belonging to other individuals from this list prior to placing this 
list in a patient file. 
 
If you need this material in an alternative format, such as large print, please contact our Americans with 
Disabilities Act Coordinator at (501) 682-6789 or 1-877-708-8191. Both telephone numbers are voice and 
TDD. 
 
Arkansas Medicaid provider manuals (including update transmittals), official notices, and remittance 
advice (RA) messages are available for downloading from the Arkansas Medicaid website: 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us.\n