STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/ARRx_Notification_20141205.pdf/d53592e3-4e6c-e02b-13fd-d51d87c0e2cb?t=1682101039076\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
humanservices.arkansas.gov 
Protecting the vulnerable, fostering independence and promoting better health 
 
 
Division of Medical Services 
Arkansas Medicaid Evidence-Based 
Prescription Drug Program 
 
Local 501-526-4200 · Fax: 501-526-4188 
Long-Distance WATS 866-250-2518 
 
 
December 5, 2014 
 
Subject:  Evidenced-Based Prescription Drug List (PDL) re-review of ADHD drugs: Atomoxetine HCl 
(Straterra®), amphetamine mixture (Adderall® and Adderall® XR), clonidine (Catapres®, Catapres® 
TTS, Kapvay®, Nexiclon® XR), dexmethylphenidate HCl (Focalin®, Focalin® XR), dextroamphetamine 
sulfate (Dexedrine® tablet, Dexedrine® Spansule, Dextrostat® tablet, Liquadd® Oral Solution, Zenzedi™ 
tablet), guanfacine HCl (Tenex®, Intuniv®) lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (Vyvanse®), methamphetamine 
HCl (Desoxyn®), methylphenidate HCl (Concerta®, Metadate® CD, Metadate® ER, Methylin®, Ritalin®, 
Ritalin® LA, Ritalin® SR, Quillivant™ XR oral suspension), methylphenidate (Daytrana® patch)  
 
 
 
Effective Feb. 3, 2015, Strattera® (atomoxetine), in the ADD/ADHD drug class, will move to 
preferred status on the AR Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL).   
 
The agents that will continue as preferred status are: Adderall® XR (brand only), Focalin® XR 
(brand only), Vyvanse® (lisdexamfetamine dimesylate), amphetamine mixed salt combo IR tablets,  
dextroamphetamine IR 5 mg and 10 mg tablets, and Focalin® IR (brand only), methylphenidate IR 
tablets.  These medications will be reimbursed by Arkansas Medicaid without a phone call for prior 
authorization; however, clinical edits, maximum daily dose edits, cumulative quantity edits, age edits, and 
therapeutic duplication edits will apply.  Please refer to the AR Medicaid pharmacy program website at 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClinicalEdits  and 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClaimEdits for details on 
these point-of-sale (POS) prior authorization criteria edits.  Exceptions to established criteria and edits are 
reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  Prescribers must provide written documentation to substantiate the 
medical necessity of the request to override the established edits.  
 
Beginning Feb. 3, 2015, Daytrana® patch will move to NON-PREFERRED STATUS with 
continuation criteria.  Concerta® (brand and generic methylphenidate extended-release) will remain as 
non-preferred status with continuation criteria.   For both Daytrana® patch and Concerta® (brand and 
generic methylphenidate extended-release), the pharmacy point-of-sale clinical edit system will search 
the recipient’s Medicaid drug history to identify patients who are stable and compliant on the prescribed 
therapy.  A patient will be allowed to continue the same medication at the same dose by the system 
creating the approved prior authorization at the point-of-sale.  Stable and compliant is defined for these 
drugs as the patient has received at least 90 days of medication therapy (same dose, same drug) out of 
the previous 120 days based on the patient’s Medicaid drug profile.  Claims for “new starts” on these 
NON-PREFERRED agents will reject at point-of-sale.  
 
Amphetamine mixed salt combo XR (generic Adderall XR), dexmethylphenidate ER and IR (generic 
Focalin IR and generic Focalin XR), Intuniv® (guanfacine long-acting), Kapvay® (clonidine long-acting), 
Nexiclon® XR (clonidine long-acting), dextroamphetamine capsules, dextroamphetamine solution, 
Zenzedi™ 2.5  mg, 7.5 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg IR (Dextroamphetamine) tablets, methamphetamine 
(Desoxyn®) tablet, methylphenidate chew tabs, methylphenidate solution,  Quillivant™ XR 
(methylphenidate) oral suspension, and methylphenidate CD, LA, SR, and ER tablets and capsules will 
remain as NON-PREFERRED status.   
 
Immediate release clonidine and guanfacine do not require prior authorization and are not included on the 
ADD/ADHD PDL list as these drugs have other uses.  
 
If the prescriber believes that a non-preferred product is medically necessary and the patient does not 
meet applicable point-of-sale edits, the prescriber must contact the EBRx PDL Prior Authorization (PA) 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
AR Medicaid Prescription Drug Program Preferred Drug List (PDL) Re-Review of ADD/ADHD drug category  
page 2 of 2 
Call Center at (Local) 501-526-4200 • Fax: 501-526-4188 • WATS (Long-Distance) 866-250-2518 to 
speak directly with clinical pharmacists and may also submit written documentation of medical necessity 
to a physician at the PDL PA Call Center concerning the request for a non-preferred status drug. 
After a PA request is approved and entered into the system, the pharmacy can fill the prescription and 
submit the claim.   
 
This advance notice is to provide you the opportunity to contact, counsel and change patients from less 
proven or less cost-effective medicines to the Arkansas Medicaid-preferred drug. If you are an Arkansas 
Medicaid provider and have prescriptions attributed to you by your provider ID number by the dispensing 
pharmacy, we are attaching a list of those patients who have been identified as receiving prescriptions for 
drugs that are not on the preferred drug list in the referenced class. If you are not currently prescribing the 
referenced drug(s) or are not prescribing drugs in the referenced class(es), this provider notice is being 
submitted to you for informational purposes only. 
 
Note: You are reminded that protected health information (PHI) may not be disclosed. Therefore 
you are advised to redact all PHI belonging to other individuals from this list prior to placing this 
list in a patient file. 
 
If you need this material in an alternative format, such as large print, please contact our Americans with 
Disabilities Act Coordinator at (501) 682-6789 or 1-877-708-8191. Both telephone numbers are voice and 
TDD. 
 
Arkansas Medicaid provider manuals (including update transmittals), official notices and remittance 
advice (RA) messages are available for downloading from the Arkansas Medicaid website: 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us.\n