STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/pdlCMA.pdf/dc0fc8f5-e357-27c7-4e79-e75427dfda71?t=1682101047732\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us 
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year 
 
Division of Medical Services 
 
Arkansas Medicaid Evidence-Based 
Prescription Drug Program 
 
501-526-4200 · Fax: 501-526-4188 · WATS 866-250-2518 
 
 
July 21, 2014 
 
Subject:  Evidenced-Based Prescription Drug List (PDL) re-review of Controller 
Medications for Asthma and Long-acting Medications to treat Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD):  Formoterol (Foradil® Aerolizer®; Performist®); Arformoterol 
(Brovana®); Indacaterol (Arcapta™ Neohaler™); Salmeterol (Serevent® Diskus®); 
Beclomethasone (QVAR®); Budesonide (Pulmicort® Respules®, Pulmicort® Flexhaler™); 
Fluticasone propionate (Flovent® Diskus®, Flovent® HFA); Flunisolide (Aerospan®); 
Mometasone (Asmanex® Twisthaler®); Ciclesonide (Alvesco®); Formoterol/budesonide 
(Symbicort®); Formoterol/mometasone (Dulera®); Salmeterol/fluticasone propionate (Advair® 
Diskus® Advair® HFA); Vilanterol/fluticasone furoate (Breo™ Ellipta™); Zileuton (Zyflo®, Zyflo® 
CR®); Montelukast (Singulair®); Zafirlukast (Accolate®); Roflumilast (Daliresp®). 
 
The following medications have been ADDED to PREFERRED status in the Inhaled Corticosteroids (ICS) 
drug class in the Asthma and COPD Controller drug classes: Pulmicort® (budesonide) 
Flexhaler™, and Aerospan™ (flunisolide) inhaler.  The status change to PREFERRED STATUS for 
these agents is effective July 2, 2014.  However, until the system changes can be updated on Sept. 
23, 2014 to allow these claims to go through at point of sale, please call the PDL PA Call Center to 
request one of these medications.   
 
The medications that will CONTINUE as PREFERRED status agents in the Asthma and COPD Controller 
drug classes are: 
 
ICS: Flovent® (fluticasone proprionate) HFA Inhaler and Flovent® Diskus®; 
ICS/Long-Acting Beta-2 Agonist (LABA): Symbicort® (formoterol/budesonide) inhaler, Dulera® 
(formoterol/mometasone furoate) inhaler; 
Leukotriene modifiers: montelukast (generic Singulair®);  
 
Clinical edits, dose edits, and therapeutic duplication edits may apply to the preferred 
medications in these drug classes.  Please refer to the Medicaid pharmacy program website at 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClinicalEdits  and 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClaimEdits for details on 
these point-of-sale (POS) prior authorization criteria edits. 
 
Beginning Sept. 23, 2014, the following medications in the Asthma and COPD Controller drug 
classes will be MOVED TO NON-PREFERRED STATUS for asthma and COPD: 
ICS: QVAR® (beclomethasone), Asmanex® Twisthaler® (mometasone furoate);  
ICS/LABA: Advair Diskus® and Advair® HFA inhaler (fluticasone propionate/salmeterol xinaforate), 
Breo® Ellipta™ (vilantero/fluticasone furoate) inhaler; 
LABA: Brovana® (arformoterol), Perforomist® (formoterol fumarate), Foradil® Aerolizer® (formoterol 
fumarate/eformoterol), Serevent® (salmeterol xinafoate), Arcapta™ Neohaler™ (indacaterol maleate). 
Phosphodiesterase-4: Daliresp® (roflumilast);  
 
The following agents will remain non-preferred in the Asthma and COPD Controller drug classes: 
Budesonide nebulizer solution (Pulmicort Respules®), ciclesonide inhaler (Alvesco®), zafirlukast 
(Accolate®) oral tablet, and zileuton (Zyflo®) oral tablet.  
Non-preferred agents in the Asthma and COPD Controller drug classes will reject at point-of-sale.   If the 
prescriber believes that a non-preferred product is medically necessary and the patient does not meet 
applicable POS edits, the prescriber must contact the PDL Prior Authorization (PA) Call Center (see 


--- Page 2 ---
E v i d e n c e - b a s e d  r e v i e w  o f  a g e n t s  i n  A s t h m a  a n d  C O P D  C o n t r o l l e r  D r u g  
C l a s s e s  
 
P a g e  | 2 
 
 
phone number above) to speak directly with a clinical pharmacist and may also submit written 
documentation of medical necessity to a physician at the PDL PA Call Center concerning the request for 
a non-preferred status drug. After a PA request is approved and entered into the system, the pharmacy 
can fill the prescription and submit the claim.      
 
This advance notice is to provide you the opportunity to contact, counsel, and change patients on less 
proven or less cost-effective medicines to the Arkansas Medicaid-preferred drug. If you are an Arkansas 
Medicaid provider and have prescriptions attributed to your provider ID number by the dispensing 
pharmacy, we are attaching a list of those patients who have been identified as receiving prescriptions for 
drugs that are not on the preferred drug list in the referenced class. If you are not currently prescribing the 
referenced drug(s) or are not prescribing drugs in the referenced class(es), this provider notice is being 
submitted to you for informational purposes only. 
 
Note: You are reminded that protected health information (PHI) may not be disclosed. Therefore 
you are advised to redact all PHI belonging to other individuals from this list prior to placing this 
list in a patient file. 
 
If you need this material in an alternative format, such as large print, please contact our Americans with 
Disabilities Act Coordinator at (501) 682-6789 or 1-877-708-8191. Both telephone numbers are voice and 
TDD. 
 
Arkansas Medicaid provider manuals (including update transmittals), official notices, and remittance 
advice (RA) messages are available for downloading from the Arkansas Medicaid website: 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us.\n