STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/Arkansas+Provider+Training+FAQs.pdf/1a14d850-b8dd-73a3-5652-7e871aa13a1e?t=1682347201223\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
State of Arkansas Provider Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Document 
March 13, 2015 
Magellan Medicaid Administration collected questions during our Web-based training sessions facilitated 
in February and March 2015. We are providing the questions and answers in this document as a reference 
tool. We have organized the questions by the course in which it was collected. 
Introduction to Magellan Medicaid Administration  
Question 
Answer 
For claims processed prior to 3/14/15, where 
should pharmacies route the reversal 
transaction? 
All pharmacy claim transactions should come to Magellan 
Medicaid Administration starting on 3/14/15. 
Will the program edits be the same? 
Yes, the program is not changing. Magellan Medicaid 
Administration will be the new pharmacy claims 
processor but the PA requirements, quantity limits, etc. 
will remain the same. 
Can the BIN be used as the Other Payer ID 
Qualifier? 
Yes, ‘03’ BIN is an acceptable value for the Other Payer ID 
Qualifier. 
Will DME claims be handled by Magellan 
Medicaid Administration? 
No, these claims will remain with Hewlett-Packard (HP). 
How will the pharmacies check eligibility during 
the downtime from 3/14/15 12:00 a.m. – 5:59 
a.m. CT? 
All Help Desks are closed on weekends with the present 
set-up. This should not interrupt anything the pharmacies 
currently do today. Please hold all claims and submit 
starting at 6:00 a.m. CT on 3/14/15. 
Will the member IDs remain the same? 
Yes 
Who should pharmacies contact with policy and 
procedure questions? 
Providers should use the Contact Us link on the Web 
portal and the appropriate team will respond to the 
inquiry. 
What is Magellan Medicaid Administration doing 
to educate the prescriber community? 
Magellan Medicaid Administration is offering prescriber 
and pharmacy provider Webinars. The State of Arkansas 
has posted messages on the current HP Website about 
this change. Beginning March 1, HP has agreed to start 
having an alert message playing on all inbound calls to the 
Help Desk. Alerts have been placed on the RA messages 
sent weekly to all provider types and a 60- and 30-day 
notice letter will be mailed to all pharmacy providers. 
Magellan Medicaid Administration has reached out to the 
Arkansas Pharmacist Association and Arkansas Medical 
Society to coordinate a blast fax about the change also. 
 
Proprietary & Confidential 
© 2013, Magellan Health Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


--- Page 2 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
Will each person have their own ID for the portal 
or will one be shared at the office/facility? 
One person should be designated to go into the UAC to 
register for the pharmacy with the NPI or for the 
prescriber with the Medicaid ID or NPI. A PIN letter will 
be generated and sent to that provider/prescriber 
advising that this designated person (requester) 
registered to work on their behalf on the AR Web portal. If 
the provider/prescriber is okay with this, they will give 
the PIN letter to the requester so that they can complete 
the UAC registration process. Once that is completed, the 
requester becomes known as the UAC Delegated 
Administrator. The UAC Delegated Administrator will 
then access UAC and create IDs and Passwords for any 
designated staff members who will access the AR Provider 
Portal secure tools and applications. Once the staff 
member logs in for the first time, they will be asked to 
create a new password; this ensures that no one will 
know anyone else’s password. 
Will the payment cycle or RA cycle change? 
No, they will remain the same. 
Are paper claims allowed? 
No, all claims should be submitted as Point-of-Sale (POS) 
or Web Claims Submission (WCS) transactions (similar to 
DDE used with HP today). 
What are the specific requirements for an 
emergency fill? 
In an emergency, for those drugs for which a five-day 
supply can be dispensed, a pharmacy may dispense up to 
a five-day supply of a drug that requires clinical criteria or 
is non-preferred. The Emergency Supply Policy does not 
apply to drugs that are not covered by the State of 
Arkansas. This provision applies only in an emergency 
situation and when the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Prescription Drug Help Desk is unavailable, Evidence 
Based Prescription Drug Program Help Desk is 
unavailable, or the pharmacist is not able to contact the 
prescribing physician. To file a claim using this emergency 
provision, the pharmacy provider will submit a “03” in the 
Level of Service (418-DI) field. Frequency of the 
emergency override is limited to once per year per drug 
class for non-LTC beneficiaries and once per 60 days per 
drug class for LTC beneficiaries. 
Which DAW codes will AR accept? 
AR will accept values ‘0’ and ‘1’ only. 
When would the Patient Residence field be used? The Patient Residence field could be used to show that 
someone is in LTC or Hospice. 
When would the Special Package Indicator of 
‘DT’ be used? 
The Special Package Indicator field is used to clarify if the 
product is a unit dose. Valid values are ‘1’ Not Unit Dose, 
‘2’ Manufacturer Unit Dose, or ‘3’ Pharmacy Unit Dose. 
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 2 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015 
 


--- Page 3 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
What is the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
address in Little Rock? 
1 Allied Drive Building 1, Little Rock, AR 72202 
Is the Software Vendor Certification ID required? Yes 
Is the provider manual going to be on the 
Magellan Medicaid Administration Provider Web 
Portal? 
The Provider Manual will still be maintained by HP. A link 
will be provided on the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Provider Web Portal to the HP site where the provider 
manual is housed. 
It was noted that on HP’s Website the providers 
were able to look up a member by Last Name and 
DOB. Why is this not allowed on Magellan 
Medicaid Administration’s Web portal? 
There are 4 main reasons why this was changed. 1) Only a 
pharmacy and a provider with prescriptive authority will 
be able to access this member eligibility on the Magellan 
Medicaid Administration Web Portal. 2) Only members 
with prescription benefits will pull back a potential result 
on this Web portal. 3) This service is free of charge 
although it does not guarantee payment or obligation to 
pay on any part by the State of Arkansas, Magellan 
Medicaid Administration, HP or any other vendor of the 
State of Arkansas. 4) Since this eligibility check only pulls 
back data related to members with potential prescription 
benefits, the system needs more specific information than 
what can be used on the HP portal which contains ALL 
members that may have several different types Medicaid 
coverage and includes details outside of prescription 
benefits that only Magellan Medicaid Administration will 
be processing. 
Can you elaborate on pharmacy lock-ins? 
A member can be locked into filling medications at a 
particular pharmacy (up to 5 total) for any given class of 
drugs, list of drugs, or all drugs. The State of Arkansas will 
forward the members to be locked-in to Magellan 
Medicaid Administration for entry into the system. The 
lock-ins that exist today will be transferred over into our 
system from HP and will still apply. 
Can the pharmacy submit a PA if they are LTC 
and have the information needed for the form? 
Only the prescriber of the medication requiring a PA can 
submit a PA request for that drug. Stated in Section 2 of 
the Pharmacy Provider Manual, part 240.000 titled ‘Prior 
Authorization’, “The prescriber must initiate the prior 
authorization (PA) for prescription drugs that require a 
PA. The PA request form will be completed by the 
prescriber. The form must remain in the patient’s chart 
and will be subject to audit by the Division of Medical 
Services or its authorized representatives.” 
Where can we obtain a copy of this Webinar? 
Use this link to view a recording of the session:  
http://magellanhealth.adobeconnect.com/p65xwhrrv21/. 
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 3 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015 
 


--- Page 4 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
Can you see claims from other pharmacies on the 
Magellan Medicaid Administration Provider 
Portal? 
If you are logged in as a pharmacy and use the View My 
Claims Lookup tool, you will only be able to view claims 
submitted by your pharmacy; prescribers will not have 
this feature. If you are a prescriber or a pharmacy and 
look up a Beneficiary via the Lookup tool, you can see 
their eligibility dates as well as Claims information for 
that specific member which includes Label Name and Date 
of Service. It will not display the Rx number, prescriber, or 
pharmacy information on those claims. 
Will Coordination of Benefits (COB) information 
be available via the Beneficiary Lookup tool? 
No, you will need to contact the Magellan Medicaid 
Administration Support Center with any questions related 
to COB information. The phone # will be 800-424-7895 
and will be available starting on March 14, 2015 from 6 
a.m. – 5 p.m. CT Monday – Friday, excluding State of 
Arkansas Holidays. The Magellan Medicaid 
Administration Support Center will be available the 
weekend of March 14 – 15, 2015 for extra support with 
the implementation. 
User Administration Console (UAC) 
Question 
Answer 
Do the passwords for UAC expire? 
You will be prompted to change your password 
approximately every 41 days. 
How do you sign up a new provider? 
HP still handles provider enrollment. 
When will they be able to register for a PIN? 
The User Administration Console will be available to 
request a PIN on 3/14/15. 
Should the Medicaid ID number used to request a PIN 
be the clinic’s ID or the individual provider’s ID? 
It is recommended that one person be the designated 
Delegated Administrator and take ownership of the 
registration process. This person would request PINs 
for each individual Medicaid ID number/provider. If 
there are multiple locations/clinics, the Delegated 
Administrator could then set-up Local Administrators 
after the registration process is completed. The Local 
Administrators could assist with the creation of user 
accounts for the staff in each location/clinic and grant 
access to work on behalf of the applicable Medicaid 
provider(s). 
What is the URL for the Website? 
The Website will be available on 3/14/15 and can be 
found at 
https://arkansas.magellanrx.com/provider/.  
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 4 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015 
 


--- Page 5 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
If a prescriber works at multiple locations, will all the 
locations be listed in UAC or just one? 
The address submitted at the time of enrollment with 
HP for a prescriber will display in UAC. If the PIN 
letter should be mailed to another address, please 
follow the procedure in UAC for an Alternate Address. 
If the address on file with HP needs to be updated, 
please contact HP Provider Enrollment to get this 
fixed. Magellan will not be able to correct/update any 
provider demographic information. 
Is this replacing the existing site the providers? 
currently log into for Arkansas Medicaid? 
No, both the existing Website hosted by HP and the 
Magellan Medicaid Administration Web portal will be 
in place starting March 14, 2015. Please keep in mind 
that the Magellan Medicaid Administration Web 
portal will only contain pharmacy drug benefit 
related information. 
Are DME claims still processed online? 
DME claims will continue to be processed by HP using 
the existing process. 
Can I register for access to the portal by using the 
Provider ID of the physician group/clinic/hospital? 
No. Registration and access to PHI related 
information on the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Web portal is locked to pharmacies and individual 
providers with prescriptive authority enrolled in the 
State of Arkansas Medicaid program only.  
What happens if my eligibility ends and is then 
reinstated? 
If access to the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Web portal has been granted and then your eligibility 
ends, you will have to contact HP Provider 
Enrollment to get reactivated in the State of Arkansas 
Medicaid program and then go through the Magellan 
Medicaid Administration Web portal UAC PIN request 
process again from scratch. Magellan Medicaid 
Administration will only be giving a 30 day grace 
period from when that provider is closed in the HP 
system before access to the Magellan Medicaid 
Administration Web Portal is denied. No old accounts 
are kept with Magellan Medicaid Administration that 
can be reactivated. 
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 5 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015 
 


--- Page 6 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
Rose Anne Cato, UAMS, expressed concern about 
requesting PINs for a thousand providers that are at 
UAMS on a limited basis in addition to a primary 
office. 
In the case of large numbers of providers, the 
Magellan Medicaid Administration Web Support 
Center should be contacted for assistance in 
registration. Magellan has best practices set up for 
these situations, with multiple scenarios that meet 
different organizational needs. For this scenario, it is 
recommended to follow the first option on the 
attached document. 
 
UAC-AdministratorOr
ganizationalScenarios 
Web Claims Submission 
Question 
Answer 
Will WCS save the patient information in the 
system like PES or will the patient have to be 
entered every time? 
If you are entering multiple claims for the same patient, 
rather than clicking New Claim, click back on the Claim 
Entry tab and just change out the drug, quantity, DOS, 
Date Written, Rx Number, etc. so you don’t have to key in 
the patient information all over again. If you click New 
Claim, it will erase everything you previously submitted 
and it will be a blank template to start from. Since PES is 
a software program offered by HP, it will no longer be 
able to submit outpatient pharmacy drug claims. You can 
still utilize the HP PES software to submit all other claim 
types. 
Will the claim show as accepted or denied? 
Yes, you will have a tab called Claim Results which will 
show if it is rejected, paid, duplicate, etc. along with all 
NCDPD reject codes. It will also provide pricing 
information on this screen as well. 
Where do we get the software? 
To access Web Claims Submission, you must register via 
the User Administration Console as a recognized State of 
Arkansas Medicaid enrolled pharmacy provider. You will 
then create an ID and Password to the Magellan Medicaid 
Administration Provider Portal. Once logged in to the 
secure area of the Magellan Medicaid Administration 
Provider Portal, you will click on Web Claims Submission 
to launch this application. There is no software download 
needed and this Web Claims Submission process will 
only be made available to pharmacy providers. 
When can we register via UAC? 
You can begin to use the UAC and Web Portal features on 
March 14, 2015. 
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 6 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015 
 


--- Page 7 ---
Magellan Medicaid Administration 
State of Arkansas Provider FAQs Document
 
Question 
Answer 
Will this Webinar be available to view? 
Yes. You can watch today’s session by clicking on the 
following URL: 
http://magellanhealth.adobeconnect.com/p552rkb8ncr/ 
If a facility has some pending claims from the 
beginning of the month due to pending 
paperwork, which BIN, PCN, and group will be 
used if submitted around the 15th or 16th of the 
month? 
All pharmacy drug claims submitted beginning 3/14/15 
will require the new BIN, PCN, and group. 
For Medicaid pending clients that are 
retroactively approved back to January and 
earlier, which BIN will be used? 
The new BIN, PCN, and group will be used for all 
pharmacy drug claims submitted beginning on 3/14/15 
regardless of the date of service being billed for. 
 
Proprietary & Confidential 
Page 7 
 
Revision Date: March 13, 2015\n