STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/Preferred+Drug+List+Overview.pdf/0502ab6b-5657-6ef6-b9a9-a2e6df168b85?t=1682360546951\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Arkansas Medicaid Evidence-Based Prescription Drug Program 
Preferred Drug List (PDL)  
  
Overview  
  
Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Program will maintain a Preferred Drug List based on comparative 
evidence-based data from Clinical Evidence Reports (CER).  Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy 
Program will use the CER to identify drug class or drug classes of medications that have similar 
indications, efficacy, and safety.  Arkansas Medicaid will negotiate state supplemental rebates 
with manufacturers for the identified medication(s) pursuant to a CMS approved State 
Supplemental Rebate Agreement.  A Drug Cost Committee (DCC) will review both State 
Supplemental and Federal rebates to determine the final net cost to the State of the identified 
medication(s).  A Drug Review Committee (DRC) will review the CER to determine safety and 
efficacy for the identify medication(s).  The DCC and DRC will provide recommendations to the 
State for preferred and non-preferred status for the identified medication(s).  The Arkansas 
Medicaid will use these recommendations to establish and maintain a Preferred Drug List.  
  
Development of the Preferred Drug List  
The Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Program will determine which class or classes of medications 
will be reviewed for potential PDL development and the PDL review schedule.  Arkansas 
Medicaid Program will use the CER to analyze and summarize the relative effectiveness of the 
drugs in a drug class or drug classes of medications in terms of efficacy and patient safety.    
The Medicaid Pharmacy Program or its designee will send an invitation to manufacturers to 
submit a State Supplemental Rebate (SSR) offer for drugs in the drug class(es) under 
consideration in an upcoming review.  The pharmaceutical manufacturers will receive complete 
instructions regarding submission information and deadlines. The SSR agreement contracts will 
be stated in terms of the Guaranteed Net Unit Price (GNUP)  of the drug product to the State, net 
of all rebates.    
The Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Program or its designee will provide the CER to the Drug 
Review Committee (DRC) for the drugs under consideration. The DRC membership will consist 
of seven members appointed by the Arkansas Medicaid Pharmacy Administrator.  The DRC 
members will include three Arkansas Licensed Physicians, three Arkansas Licensed Pharmacists, 
and one chair appointed by the Medicaid Pharmacy Administrator.  The DRC will also have at a 
minimum one physician and one pharmacist alternate.    
The DRC meetings will be open to the public.  The meeting agenda will list the drugs under 
review, and the date, time, and location of the meeting. The meeting agenda shall be posted on 
the Medicaid Pharmacy Program website, ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents, 30-
days prior to the meeting and shall serve as the sole source of notification to the public.   


--- Page 2 ---
The Medicaid Drug Cost Committee members shall be appointed by the Medicaid Pharmacy 
Program Administrator.  Due to the confidential and proprietary nature of the information 
reviewed, membership shall consist of staff directly associated with the Arkansas Medicaid 
Pharmacy Program.   
The Cost Committee meetings shall be closed meetings due to the proprietary nature of the data 
being reviewed.  
Based on the review of the evidence from the DRC meeting and the review of the final net costs 
to the state for all products under consideration, the Cost Committee will finalize a 
recommendation to Medicaid for which products should be included as preferred status on the 
PDL.    
Notification of Changes to the PDL  
At least thirty days prior to the implementation date for moving a medication to non-preferred 
status on the PDL, the AR Medicaid Pharmacy Program shall communicate any changes 
affecting the Preferred Drug List to State Medicaid Program providers through a notification 
process, which may include, but not be limited to, issuance of written notification to Medicaid 
providers, inclusion on the Medicaid Pharmacy Program website 
ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents, or remittance advice messages. The PDL 
communication will include the effective date of said changes.  In addition, where feasible, the 
Medicaid program will provide recipient-specific notifications to prescribers identifying his/her 
patients who have received drugs that are moving to non-preferred status and will require prior 
authorization to continue the medication after the implementation date.  During the 30-day notice 
prior to implementation, pharmacy providers will receive system-generated messages when a 
claim is submitted for a drug that is changing to non-preferred status in the future. Prescribers 
and pharmacies should use this time to counsel his/her patients about the potential need to 
change his/her prescriptions to a preferred status drug on the PDL.  Drugs changed to preferred 
status on the PDL that do not require specific prior approval criteria may be changed sooner than 
30-days.  
  
All changes to the PDL drug list shall be posted on the Medicaid Pharmacy Program website 
within 14 days of the scheduled date for the DRC meetings at ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-
documents.  This shall serve as the sole source of notification and it is the providers’ 
responsibility to review quarterly changes to the PDL.    
  
Implementation of the PDL  
The prescriber must contact the PDL PA Call Center to request the non-preferred medication on 
the PDL.  The phone number for the PDL PA Call Center is listed below. If a pharmacy submits a 
claim for a non-preferred drug, and the prescriber has not obtained a PA approval, the pharmacy 


--- Page 3 ---
will continue to receive a system-generated denial message to notify the pharmacy that the claim 
is for a non-preferred drug on the PDL. If a PA request is approved and entered into the system, 
the retail pharmacy can fill the prescription and submit the claim. In an emergency, a pharmacy 
may dispense up to five day supply of a non-preferred drug.  This provision applies only when 
the PA Call Center is unavailable and the pharmacist is not able to contact the prescribing 
physician to change the medication.  A pharmacy provider will submit an ‘03’ in the Level of 
Service (418-DI) field.  The software vendor should be consulted to enable the pharmacy 
provider to access this field.  
  
Operation of the Call Center  
The Call Center will operate from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.  
Prescribers may submit PA requests to the PDL PA Call Center via telephone, fax, or postal mail. 
The toll free number for the PDL PA Call Center is 1-800-424-7895; the PDL fax number is 1-
800-424-5739.  
The PDL Call Center will respond to all PA requests within 24 business hours of receipt. If a 
request is approved, the Call Center staff will enter the approval directly into the State’s PA 
system and notify the prescriber.  If a PA request is denied by a Call Center pharmacist, the 
denial is entered into the PA system and will notify to the prescriber.  The prescriber may submit 
a written request for a reconsideration review. The prescriber will receive the outcome of the 
reconsideration request within 24 business hours of receipt.  The recipient and/or prescriber may 
appeal the denial utilizing the existing appeal procedures printed on the denial letter.\n