STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/d/arkansas/arkansas-medicaid-ffs-and-mco-manual-billing-policies\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
From the Arkansas Medicaid FFS provider manuals per 340B: 
 Pharmacy - Arkansas Department of Human Services.  
217.000             Federal Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing Program 
4-1-17 
All covered entities that participate in the Federal Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing 
Program (340B) that carve Arkansas Medicaid into the 340B program are required to bill Arkansas 
Medicaid using their 340B Actual Invoice Price for drugs. 
A.      Covered entities that bill Arkansas Medicaid for physician administered drugs including 
specialty drugs are required to bill Arkansas Medicaid using their 340B Actual Invoice Price. 
B.      Pharmacies are required to bill Arkansas Medicaid using their 340B Actual Invoice Price for 
Covered Legend and non-legend drugs, including specialty drugs, purchased through the Federal 
Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing Program (340B).  The 340B covered entity pharmacies 
that carve Medicaid into the 340B Drug Pricing Program will be reimbursed at the 340B Actual 
Invoice Price plus the established professional dispensing fee minus the beneficiary’s 
copayment.  The 340B pharmacies will identify on claim submission using the National Council for 
Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP) indicator for drugs purchased through the 340B 
program.  Drugs purchased outside the 340B program shall be submitted without the NCPDP 340B 
claim indicator and will be reimbursed using the lesser of methodology plus the established 
professional dispensing fee minus the beneficiary’s copayment.  All applicable federal and state 
supplemental rebates will be applied to claims submitted without the NCPDP 340B claim 
indicator.  The State will not recognize 340B contract pharmacies.  The 340B contract pharmacies 
are required to carve Medicaid claims out of the 340B Drug Pricing Program.  Claims exceeding the 
340B ceiling price as published or calculated by Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) minus Unit 
Rebate Amount (URA) will be subject to audit and may reject at point of sale. 
Pharmacy providers who submit NCPDP claims to the Arkansas Medicaid Program on or after 
January 1, 2012 will be required to send value 07, 08 or 13 in the Basis of Cost Determination field 
(423-DN).  The 340B providers have contractual agreements with federally qualified 340B entities, 
enabling special purchase of medication at federal bid pricing.  These medications are reserved for 
only beneficiaries meeting the federal definition of 340B patients.  Claims for prescriptions filled 
with medications purchased through the 340B program will carry the 08 value (340B Pricing) in the 
Basis of Cost Determination Field.  Claims submitted with usual and customary pricing will carry 
the 07 value (Usual and Customary Pricing) in this field.  Claims for prescriptions filled with non-
340B purchased medication AND given a special price will carry the 13 value (Special Pricing) in 
this field. 
  
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
Section 1 of all FFS manuals for all provider types includes information on 340B: 
All Providers - Arkansas Department of Human Services 
  
142.200 Conditions Related to Billing for Medicaid Services                                                                    4-1-
23 
A. Any covered service performed by a provider must be billed only after the service has been 
provided. No service or procedure may be pre-billed. 
B. Endorsement of the provider check issued by the Medicaid fiscal agent certifies that the services 
were rendered by or under the direct supervision of the provider as billed. 
C. It is the responsibility of each provider to be alert to the possibility of third-party sources of 
payment and to report receipt of funds from these sources to DMS. 
D. Each provider must accept Medicare assignment under Title XVIII (Medicare) in order to receive 
payment under Title XIX (Medicaid) for any Medicare deductible or coinsurance due and payable 
under Title XIX (Medicaid). See Section 142.700 for more information and details. 
E. Each provider must accept payment from Medicaid as payment in full for covered services, make 
no additional charges, and accept no additional payment from the beneficiary for these services. 
F. Medicaid providers may not charge beneficiaries for the completion and submission of a 
Medicaid claim form. If the provider agrees to accept the patient as a Medicaid beneficiary and 
agrees to bill Medicaid for the services rendered, the beneficiary may not be charged for this billing 
procedure. 
G. Claims for services provided to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries must be submitted to the 
Medicaid fiscal agent within twelve (12) months from the date of service. 
H. Federal Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing Program: All covered entities (except Federally 
Qualified Health Centers) that participate in the Federal Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing 
Program (340B) that carve Arkansas Medicaid into the 340B program are required to bill Arkansas 
Medicaid using their 340B actual invoice price for covered outpatient drugs. Reimbursement shall 
be no more than the 340B ceiling price. The 340B actual invoice price for each drug reimbursement 
covered under this program must be submitted to the Department prior to any claims being 
processed. A covered outpatient drug includes outpatient drugs and drugs used in connection with 
an inpatient or outpatient service provided by a hospital. Covered entities (except Federally 
Qualified Health Centers) must also identify all 340B drug claims using the medical modifiers JG or 
TB. Medical drug claims from covered 340B entities without the modifiers JG or TB will be 
considered non-340B drug claims and will be subject to rebate invoicing. 
I. 340B drug claims will be subject to post payment review. Providers are responsible for 
maintaining documentation to support billed amounts. 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
For Arkansas Medicaid MCOs (PASSE), Section 5.5.6 Pharmacy Section of the PASSE MCO 
agreement includes: 
d. Pursuant to Section 1927, the PASSE must develop a process and procedure to identify drugs 
administered under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act as codified in 42 USC, as drugs 
dispensed pursuant to this authority are not eligible for the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Failure 
to identify aforementioned 340B drugs on submissions to DHS or its rebate vendor must be treated 
as a compliance violation. The PASSE must identify encounter claims administered under Section 
340B in a manner, mutually agreed upon between DHS and the PASSE, that supports an automated 
solution to identify and remove those encounter claims from Medicaid Drug Rebate processing. If a 
PASSE engages a Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM) to provide outpatient drug services to Medicaid 
Members, the PASSE must ensure that the PBM complies with the identification of 340B drugs on 
encounter claim data in a manner consistent with the NCPDP standards. This must include the use 
of a unique BIN/PCN combination to distinguish Medicaid managed care claims from commercial 
or other lines of business. Drugs acquired through the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program and 
dispensed by 340B contract pharmacies are not covered as part of the FFS pharmacy benefit. The 
PASSE may cover 340B Drugs but will exclude contract pharmacies from the 340B program.\n