STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/pdlQRMA.pdf/9557953f-19ee-04f1-2cad-d0212571191b?t=1682101057380\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us 
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year 
 
Division of Medical Services 
 
Arkansas Medicaid Evidence-Based 
Prescription Drug Program 
 
501-526-4200 · Fax: 501-526-4188 · WATS 866-250-2518 
 
 
July 21, 2014 
 
Subject:  Evidenced-Based Prescription Drug List (PDL) re-review of Quick Relief 
Medications for Asthma (QRMA):  Inhaled short-acting beta2-agonists (SABA) including 
Albuterol MDI and nebulizer solution, Levalbuterol MDI and nebulizer solution,  Pirbuterol; 
Short-acting anticholinergics including Ipratropium bromide MDI and nebulizer solution; 
Combination products including Ipratropium bromide with albuterol MDI or ipratropium bromide 
with albuterol nebulizer solution. 
 
The following medications will remain as PREFERRED status agents in the QRMA drug class: 
Ventolin® (albuterol) HFA 18 gm Inhaler and albuterol 5 mg/ml and 2.5 mg/3 ml sulfate nebulizer 
solution.  
 
These medications will be reimbursed by Arkansas Medicaid without prior authorization; however, clinical 
edits, dose edits, and therapeutic duplication edits may apply to the medications in this drug class.  
Please refer to the Medicaid pharmacy program website at 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClinicalEdits  and 
https://www.medicaid.state.ar.us/InternetSolution/Provider/pharm/scripinfo.aspx#ClaimEdits for details on 
these point-of-sale (POS) prior authorization criteria edits. 
 
Beginning Sept. 23, 2014, Xopenex HFA (levalbuterol HCl) inhaler will be removed from preferred 
status and changed to non-preferred status.  Non-preferred agents in the QRMA drug class will reject 
at point-of-sale.   If the prescriber believes that a non-preferred product is medically necessary and the 
patient does not meet applicable POS edits, the prescriber must contact the PDL Prior Authorization (PA) 
Call Center (see phone number above) to speak directly with a clinical pharmacist and may also submit 
written documentation of medical necessity to a physician at the PDL PA Call Center concerning the 
request for a non-preferred status drug. After a PA request is approved and entered into the system, the 
pharmacy can fill the prescription and submit the claim.      
 
This advance notice is to provide you the opportunity to contact, counsel, and change patients on less 
proven or less cost-effective medicines to the Arkansas Medicaid-preferred drug. If you are an Arkansas 
Medicaid provider and have prescriptions attributed to your provider ID number by the dispensing 
pharmacy, we are attaching a list of those patients who have been identified as receiving prescriptions for 
drugs that are not on the preferred drug list in the referenced class. If you are not currently prescribing the 
referenced drug(s) or are not prescribing drugs in the referenced class(es), this provider notice is being 
submitted to you for informational purposes only. 
 
Note: You are reminded that protected health information (PHI) may not be disclosed. Therefore 
you are advised to redact all PHI belonging to other individuals from this list prior to placing this 
list in a patient file. 
 
If you need this material in an alternative format, such as large print, please contact our Americans with 
Disabilities Act Coordinator at (501) 682-6789 or 1-877-708-8191. Both telephone numbers are voice and 
TDD. 
 
Arkansas Medicaid provider manuals (including update transmittals), official notices, and remittance 
advice (RA) messages are available for downloading from the Arkansas Medicaid website: 
www.medicaid.state.ar.us.\n