STATE: Arkansas\nURL: https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/documents/268611/269354/Arkansas+Medicaid+Prior+Authorization+Request+Form.pdf/ea0e2efc-0c24-c9bc-6b77-26fd38ecde38?t=1682359308741\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/provider-documents\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Arkansas Medicaid Prescription Drug Program 
Statement of Medical Necessity Prior Authorization Request 
Fax form to: 1-800-424-7976 
For questions, call: 1-800-424-7895
Revision Date: 04/24/2025 
Arkansas Medicaid 
© 2023–2025 Prime Therapeutics Management LLC, a Prime Therapeutics LLC company 
Page 1 of 2 
If the following information is not complete, correct, or legible, the prior authorization (PA) process can be 
delayed. Please use one form per beneficiary. 
Requestor Name: 
Title: 
BENEFICIARY INFORMATION 
Beneficiary Last Name:  
Beneficiary First Name:  
Medicaid ID:  
Date of Birth: 
PRESCRIBER INFORMATION 
Prescriber Last Name:  
Prescriber First Name:  
Prescriber NPI:  
DEA #:  
Prescriber Phone:  
Prescriber Fax: 
PHARMACY INFORMATION 
Pharmacy Name:  
Pharmacy Fax: 
DRUG INFORMATION 
Other specific medication forms can be found at https://ar.primetherapeutics.com/forms-documents. 
Drug Name:  
 Drug Strength:  
Drug Form:  
 Quantity:  
Dosing Frequency:  
If renewal, please provide treatment start date:  
DIAGNOSIS AND MEDICAL INFORMATION 
1. What are the beneficiary’s relevant diagnoses and ICD-10 codes?
Diagnoses:
ICD-10 codes:
2. Has the beneficiary tried any other medications for this condition?
 Yes 
 No 
a. If YES, what was the medication therapy (specify drug name and dosage)?
b. What was the duration of therapy? Specify dates:
 to 
c. What were the beneficiary's response to therapy and reason for failure or allergy?
Print
Reset


--- Page 2 ---
Arkansas Medicaid Prescription Drug Program 
Statement of Medical Necessity Prior Authorization Request 
Fax form to: 1-800-424-7976  
For questions call: 1-800-424-7895 
d. Does the prescriber attest that either the beneficiary adhered to previous therapies and the trial period 
was sufficient to allow for a positive treatment outcome, or the drug was discontinued due to an 
adverse event? 
 Yes 
 No 
e. Does the prescriber attest that the trials/failures of the preferred medications are documented in the 
beneficiary’s medical record? (Evidence of such is subject to audit.) 
 Yes 
 No 
What additional clinical information do you have that is relevant to this request for prior authorization? 
Please provide symptoms, lab results with dates, and/or justification for initial or ongoing therapy or increased 
dose, as well as whether the beneficiary has any contraindications for the health plan/insurer preferred drug. 
Lab results with dates must be provided if needed to establish diagnosis or evaluate response. Please provide 
any additional clinical information or comments pertinent to this request for coverage, including information that 
is related to exigent circumstances or required under state and federal laws. 
 
 
ATTESTATION 
Attestation: I attest the information provided is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I understand 
that the Health Plan, insurer, Medical Group, or its designees may perform a routine audit and request the 
medical information necessary to verify the accuracy of the information reported on this form. 
Prescriber’s Signature:  
 Date:  
 
(By signature, the physician confirms the above information is accurate and verifiable by patient records.) 
Retain this documentation in the patient’s medical records. Falsification of medical records is liable to the U.S. 
government for a civil penalty of not less than $5,000 and not more the $10,000, plus 3 times the amount of 
damages that the government sustains because of the act of that person. [42 U.S.C.A. § 3729(a)]. 
Confidentiality Notice: The documents accompanying this transmission contain confidential health information 
that is legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, 
distribution, or action taken in reliance on the contents of these documents is strictly prohibited. If you received 
this information in error, please notify the sender (via return fax) immediately and arrange for the return or 
destruction of these documents. 
SIGN\n