Source URL: https://mydss.mo.gov/mhd/preferred-drug-list-faqs
State: Missouri
Label: PDL FAQs
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Title: Preferred Drug List FAQs | mydss.mo.gov

Preferred Drug List FAQs | mydss.mo.gov 
Skip to main content
Missouri Department of Social Services 
DSS 
mo.gov 
Governor Kehoe 
Find an Agency 
Online Services 
Search 
Submit 
Toggle navigation 
About 
Divisions 
Services 
Family Support Services 
Blind Services 
Cash Assistance 
Child Care 
Child Support 
Community Programs 
Employment & Training 
Utility Assistance 
Food Assistance 
Health Care 
Keeping Kids Safe 
Child Abuse and Neglect Hotline 
Child Safety 
Service for Family 
Support Investigating Crimes Against Children 
Payments 
Child Support Payments 
Pay Claims & Restitution 
Pay Children's Division (FACES) Overpayment 
Pay CHIP Premium, Spenddown, Ticket-to-Work 
Set up Direct Deposit 
Learn More About 
Adoption 
Disaster Recovery Information 
Foster Care 
Help for Crime Victims 
Help with Opioid Misuse 
MO HealthNet 
Office of Workforce & Community Initiatives 
Older Youth Program 
Victims of Crime Act 
Youth Rehabilitation 
Public Data 
Providers 
Child Care Providers 
Child Care Online Invoice System 
Child Welfare Providers
Foster Care Research & Evaluation 
FACES FY 2027 Payroll Schedule 
FACES FY 2026 Payroll Schedule 
Licensing Information for Residential Treatment Agencies 
Online Invoicing for Residential Treatment & Children's Treatment Services 
Resources for Professionals & Stakeholders 
MO HealthNet Providers 
MO HealthNet News 
MO HealthNet Web Applications 
Provider Enrollment Application 
Provider Fee Schedule 
Provider Manuals 
Family Support Providers
Helpful Resources 
Become a DSS Provider
Current Bid Opportunities 
Workforce & Community Providers 
Employment & Training Provider Portal 
Contact Us 
Contact Us 
Agency Contact Information 
Find an Office 
Request Records 
Toll-Free Information Numbers 
Menu 
Preferred Drug List FAQs 
Preferred Drug List FAQs 
Does MO HealthNet now have a restrictive formulary? 
The MO HealthNet fee for service program has a preferred drug list (PDL). This means the agency solicits supplemental rebates from manufacturers. That economic information will be paired with evidence based clinical information to arrive at preferred drug(s) in each functional therapeutic class. Each drug class on the PDL is reviewed annually. Providers are encouraged to visit the agency’s Web site for the most current information. 
What does "Preferred Drug" mean? 
A preferred drug is the agent in each functional therapeutic class that the agency would like prescribers to use in beginning therapy. Mo HealthNet will continue to reimburse for all medications whose manufacturers have entered into the federal rebate program (as required by law). Agents other than the preferred product(s) may be approved on the basis of medical necessity at any time. Non-preferred agents may be transparently approved through the agency’s SmartPAsm program after a trial of preferred agents paid for by MO HealthNet. Please see the approval criteria on the Pharmacy Clinical Edit and Preferred Drug List Documents page. 
Where can I get additional information on the program and keep up with the changes? 
The Pharmacy and Clinical Services Unit posts all program material on the agency’s Web site. A pharmacy specific Web site is also available at https://pharmacy.services.conduent.com/mohealthnet/ . Additionally, you may subscribe to the agency's E-mail updates . 
How may I be involved in the process? 
The preferred drugs are chosen through a process defined by https://s1.sos.mo.gov/cmsimages/adrules/csr/current/13csr/13c70-20.pdf . The agency’s two advisory groups, the Drug Prior Authorization Committee and the Drug Use Review Board have quarterly meetings. The agendas are posted on the Web sites and open to the public. You may also address specific questions or concerns directly to the Pharmacy and Clinical Services Unit. 
Pharmacy and Clinical Services 
Department of Social Services, MO HealthNet Division 
Post Office Box 6500 
Jefferson City, MO 65102-6500 
573-751-6963 
clinical.services@dss.mo.gov 
How are claims screened and what does "transparently screened" mean? 
Virtually all pharmacy claims are processed online real-time. The claims are juried against other drug claims, participant diagnoses, and prior participant procedure claims. Clinical rules (edits) are established that look for those data elements, thus eliminating many calls for providers. Claims meeting approval criteria require no call and occur over seventy-five percent of the time. Claims not meeting criteria are rejected and must be overridden by the call center if necessary. 
Is cost the only consideration in the choice of preferred drugs? 
No. All edits are based first on medical evidence, and then net system cost is considered in development of the PDL. 
What sources of medical information are used to determine preferred drug choice? 
The agency uses the following sources of medical information: 
Clinical information provided by the manufacturer 
Evidence-based reviews developed by the Evidence-based Practice Center of Oregon Health Sciences University 
University of Missouri-Kansas City Drug Information Center 
Conduent State Health, LLC clinical staff 
MHD clinical staff 
How do I request a non-preferred agent for a patient? 
A prescriber or pharmacy may call the agency hotline at 800-392-8030 or fax the request to 573-636-6470. Hotline calls are completed within minutes and approvals immediately available in the point-of-sale system. Fax requests are usually completed in hours with a maximum of 24 hours during the normal work week. 
Can I expect delays at the call center or in obtaining approval? 
The average wait time at the call center is less than 2 minutes. During peak times in the early and late afternoon wait times may be longer. The unit monitors the call center wait times, and reacts by placing more technicians on the line at peak times to eliminate delays. 
What if I don't agree with the call center determination? 
If a provider feels the call center determination was clinically unsound they are encouraged to contact the Pharmacy and Clinical Services Unit clinical staff at 573-751-6963. If there is still disagreement, the participant has a right to appeal the determination through the Fair Hearings Process, by writing the MO HealthNet Division Participant Services Unit (PSU), PO Box 3535, Jefferson City, MO 65102-3535 to request a hearing. The Participant Services Unit may also be called toll free at 1-800-392-2161 or 573-751-6527 at the caller’s expense. The participant must contact RSU within 90 days of the date of the denial letter if they wish to request a hearing. 
About Agency 
About DSS 
About Family Support Division 
Our Divisions 
DSS.mo.gov 
Statistics & Reports 
News & Media 
Career Opportunities 
Strategic Management Priorities 
Toll-Free Numbers 
DSS Nondiscrimination Policy 
DSS Nondiscrimination Policy - Spanish 
DSS Notice of ADA 
DSS Notice of ADA - Spanish 
Popular Links 
Report Fraud 
Energy Assistance 
Child Care 
Open Meeting Notices 
Privacy Forms 
Resources
COVID-19 Information 
2-1-1 Missouri, United Way 
Register to Vote 
Influenza Information 
Health Benefit Account 
Presumptive Eligibility Resources 
Get viewers 
Connect With Us 
Like us on Facebook 
Follow us on Instagram 
Follow us on Twitter 
Watch videos on YouTube 
Follow us on Linked in 
Listen to us on SoundCloud 
Governor 
Mike Kehoe 
MO.gov State of Missouri 
Director 
Jessica Bax 
Footer menu 
Privacy Policy 
Accessibility 
Contact Us 
Site Map 
DSS Proposed Rules 
Missouri Department of Social Services is an equal opportunity employer/program. 
Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities. TDD/TTY: 800-735-2966, Relay Missouri: 711
