STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_11.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
  
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday December 13th, 2011 
        8:00 AM 
                                                                               Hilton Garden Inn 
                                                                                 Jefferson Blvd 
Warwick, Rhode Island  
 
 
P & T Members Present:  Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Chaz Gross 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
 
 
 
L. McIntyiere Johnston, MD 
 
 
 
Matthew Salisbury, MD 
Krisina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
Richard Wagner, MD 
 
P & T Members Absent: Dave Feeney, RPh. Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ralph Racca (RI Medical Assistance Program)  
 
 
 
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Ray Maxim, MD (RI Medical Assistance, Medical Director) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
The meeting called to order by the Co-Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:06 am.   
 
The September 2011 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote they were accepted as presented. 
Meeting minutes to approve – unanimously passed.  
 
Motion made to table to election of committee until the April 2012 Meeting - unanimously passed.  
Karen Mariano to follow up with a communication to the committee members asking for their intent to 
serve another term. 
 
Public testimony included the following presentations:  
1. Naissan Hussainzada, Forest Pharmaceuticals, Viibryd 
2. Corey Ventetuolo –RIH Pulmonary HTN, Bosatan (SPELLING ),   
3. Sarah Marshall – Boehringer Ingelheim, Pradaxa 
4. Laura Bartels – Shire, Vyvanse & Intuniv 
5. Jeff Olson – Gilead, Cayston & Letairis 
6. Karen Daigle – Clinical Pediatric Pulmonologist RIH, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation  
7. Daniel Baran – Merck, Vyotorin 
8. Charron Long – United Therapeutics, Adcirca & Tyvaso (Signed up to speak but did not do so; 
provided information to the committee)  
9. Arsalan Khan, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Xarelto  
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nMagellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews 
with discussion from the committee. 
 
1. 
Lipotropics/Statins – Motion made and passes to discuss the presented recommendations - passes 
unanimously. Confirm step edit with a 90 day look back for simsvastatin for Crestor. Anticipate 
atorvastatin prices to drop in six months Discuss step edit. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
2. 
Pancreatic Enzymes – Motion made and passes to discuss the presented recommendations. Review 
of current PDL guidelines of 90 days look back for preferred agent prior to approval of non-PDL 
item.  Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
3. 
Inhaled Antibiotics – Notation TOBI claims might come through on the medical claims side of the 
house. Discussion regarding rotation of drugs products& concerns development of resistance 
programs; targeted drugs for specific populations. Is there a way to create a special PA form for 
this class of drugs – this can be done. Motion made to include TOBI & Cayston. Motion passes 
with 6 votes. 
4. 
Beta Blockers – Nothing new in category recommendations are cost based. Notation that 
labetolol is indicated in pregnancy and concern that initial prescription be filled by the fee for 
service program prior to the patient moving to managed care.  Motion to accept the 
recommendations with the addition of labetelol – passes unanimously.  
5. 
Alzheimer’s Agents – Motion to accept the recommendations as recommended – passes 
unanimously.  
6. 
Anticoagulants – Cost of monitoring of warfarin. No rescue for the Pradaxa. Creation specific prior 
authorization form for its indication a non valvular atrial fibrillation. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations – passes unanimously.  
7. 
Anticonvulsants – Recommend DUR look at the mephobarbital utilization; consideration of drug 
interactions. Grandfathering of patients for non preferred drugs.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations with referral to DUR board and grandfathering of patients on non-preferred drugs – 
passes unanimously.  
8. 
Antidepressants, Other – Motion made to accept the recommendations with grandfathering of patients on 
non-preferred drugs – passes unanimously.  
9. Fibromyalgia – Recommendations Motion to accept the recommendations as recommended – 
passes unanimously. Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
10. Antidepressants, SSRI’s - Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
11. Antiemetics – Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
12. Dopamine Receptor Agonists (anti-Parkinson agents) – Motion made to accept recommendations as 
presented – passes unanimously.  
13. Stimulants & Related Agents – Motion made to accept recommendations with change to move all 
generic stimulants be moved to the brand product. Motion passes & there is discussion on the 
motion. Concern regarding product shortages and long term product availability. Motion does 
not pass. Motion made to accept recommendations as presented. Discussion on the new motion.  
Motion passes with one opposition. 
14. Angiotensin Modulators – Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
15. Calcium Channel Blockers – – Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
16. Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents – Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – 
passes unanimously.  
17. Platelet Inhibitors – –Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
 
The dates identified for 2012 meetings are: Tuesday, April 3rd, June 5th, August 28th and December 11th. 
As always, the meetings will begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:10 AM.\n