STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_april11.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nDivision of Health Care, Quality, Financing and Purchasing 
 
 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday April 5, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8:00 AM 
 
 
 
 
 
              Hilton Garden Inn 
 
 
 
 
        
                  Jefferson Blvd 
       Warwick, Rhode Island 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P&T Members Present:   
David Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
Gregory Allen, MD 
                         
 
Richard Wagner, MD 
 
 
 
 
Mathew Salisbury, MD  
 
 
        
 
L. McIntyiere Johnston, MD  
                 
 
Rita Marcoux, Co-Chairperson  
Kristina Ward, Pharm D 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
 
Others Present:      
Paula Avarista, RPh, MBA (RI Medical Assistance Program) 
 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration, Inc) 
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
Raymond Maxim, MD (Medical Director) 
 
P&T Members Absent 
Charles Gross 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by Chairperson Feeney at 8:10.  The meeting minutes of the 
December 7, 2010 meeting were reviewed.  All members voted in favor to accept the minutes as 
presented. The committee welcomed new member Scott Campbell, RPh. 
 
The public comment portion of the meeting began. Representatives from the following Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturing Companies gave presentations:  Merck, Novo Nordisk, EMD Serono, Acorda, Novartis 
and Abbott.  There were also presentations from the following: Dr. Frank D’Allesandro and Bridget 
Crabtree. 
 
Chairperson Feeney had asked DHS and Magellan to provide information on the progress of the 
program and savings achieved.  Kathy Novak from Magellan explained to the committee and to other 
attendees that the program has cost avoided $1,171,854.00 from 4th quarter 2009 to 3rd quarter 2010 
due to a shift to preferred drugs within a class and also to the supplemental rebates received by the 
state for those drugs.  Kathy further explained that due to the change in the rebate process from the 
Affordable Care Act in 2010 and the fact that the actual rebate per unit values have not been sent along 
to the states with the quarterly federal rebate program since first quarter 2010 forecasting on potential 
savings has been difficult.  The Rebate rates should again be available for the second quarter of 2011. 
 
There were no new drug classes reviewed at this meeting. The following classes were rereviewed: 
Bone Resorption Inhibitors, Hypoglycemics (both oral and injectable), Non-statin lipotropics, Proton 
Pump Inhibitors, Topical Acne Agents, Multiple Sclerosis Agents, Opthalmic Agents (non-steriodal 
anti-inflammatory), Growth Hormones and Topical Psoriasis Agents. 
 
The following drug classes had no new drugs added and no changes were made to the current status: 
Injectable Hypoglycemics and Topical Psoriasis Agents. The following classes had new entities but 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nwere not added as preferred: Bone Resorption Agents (Atelvia and Prolia), Incretin 
Mimetics/Enhancers (Kombligyze XR) and Ophthalmic Agents (Bromday). In the Proton Pump 
Inhibitor class a new generic agent became available (Pantoprazole) and was added as preferred. 
 
In the Non-statin lipotropic class there were no new agents in the class but there was a discussion about 
adding Zetia as preferred (currently non-preferred).  Adding this drug as preferred would have a 
negative impact on the existing preferred drugs in this class. It was decided to leave it as non-preferred. 
 
There was a new entity (Veltin) for the Topical Acne Agents that was put on as non-preferred.  There 
also was a concern in this class because Benzaclin was added last year to replace DUAC CS and there 
was not a significant switch away from the DUAC yet.  Kathy explained that due to the flood last year 
this class was not reviewed until June (instead of the scheduled time of April) and there were not 
enough claims processed during this shorten time to see the results. 
 
In the Growth Hormone class there were no new entities but additions  to the current products was 
recommended. Nutropin AQ and Norditropin would be added as preferred.   
 
There were two new agents in the Multiple Sclerosis class (Ampyra and Gilenya). Gilenya was added 
as non-preferred.  After the discussion of Ampyra it was determined that this drug was not a substitute 
for the other drugs in the class but an add-on to existing therapy.  It was determined that this drug 
would be removed from this class and the DUR Board would discuss a clinical edit instead. 
 
In the TZD class of Oral Hypoglycemics a new combination drug is available (ActosPlusMet XR) and 
was added as non-preferred.  Because of all the problems and concerns surrounding Avandia the 
committee decided to place this drug as non-preferred and limit its use based on detailed 
documentation from the prescriber.  All existing clients would be grandfathered in. 
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:05. The next meeting is scheduled for June 7, 2011 and will be in 
combination with the DUR Board quarterly meeting.\n