STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun09.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nDivision of Health Care, Quality, Financing and Purchasing 
 
 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday June 2, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8:00 AM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                EDS 
 
 
 
 
       171 Service Avenue Building 1 Suite 100 
                   Warwick, Rhode Island 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P&T Members Present:   
Tara Higgins, RPh, CGP, CDOE 
 
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, Pharm D 
 
 
 
 
David Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
Gregory Allen, MD 
                         
 
Richard Wagner, MD 
 
 
 
 
Charles Gross  
 
 
 
 
L. McTyeire Johnston, MD  
Mathew Salisbury, MD  
 
 
        
 
 
 
                 
Others Present:      
Paula Avarista, RPh, MBA (RI Medical Assistance 
Program) 
 
 
 
 
Ray Maxim, MD (RI Medical Assistance Program)  
 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (Electronic Data Systems) 
Raquel Holmes, RPh (First Health/Coventry Health                      
Systems) 
Ann Bennett (Electronic Data Systems) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by Chairperson Feeney at 8:05 AM.  After welcoming 
and introductory remarks, the meeting minutes of the April 7, 2009 meeting were 
reviewed.  All members voted in favor to accept the minutes as presented.  
 
The public comment portion of the meeting began. Representatives from the following 
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Companies gave presentations: Shire, GlaxoSmithKline 
Kline, Schering-Plough, Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer, and Merck & Co 
 
Raquel Holmes from First Health gave the presentations of the drug classes to be 
reviewed.  A discussion among the committee members followed each class review.  
Voting took place at the end of each review.  A re-review of the following drug classes  
was done: Antihistamines-oral, Intranasal Steroids, Bronchodilators-oral, 
Glucocorticoids-inhaled,  Leukotriene Modifiers,  Narcotic Analgesics-long-acting, 
Antimigraine agents-Triptans, Sedative Hypnotics, Fluoroquinolones-oral, 
Cephalosporins-oral, Macrolides/Ketolides-oral,  Onychomycosis Antifungals-oral and 
Ulcerative Colitis-oral and rectal. The new classes that were reviewed were 
NSAIDS/Anesthetics-topical and Skeletal Muscle Relaxants.  The committee agreed with 
the recommendations of First Health.  Changes that were made to existing drug classes 
include removing the automatic grandfathering of clients currently taking OxyContin as 
of 10 -1-09.  Compliance in this class is very low because of this.  Also, there was a 
concern about the high use of generic Fentanyl when the brand is preferred.  It was 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nexplained that there was a problem with the manufacturing of brand Duragesic so the 
restriction on the generic was lifted.  Manufacturing for the brand is now okay so there 
should be a switch back to the brand. 
 
There was also a change in the preferred agent for Albuterol HFA.  Ventolin was the 
preferred agent and now ProAir and Proventil HFA are preferred.  There was concern 
that switching patients from Ventolin to one for the other ones would cause increase 
phone calls to physicians. It was decided that all current patients on Ventolin will be 
grandfathered in until October 7, 2009.  All prescribers who currently have a patient on 
Ventolin will be sent a letter explaining the new policy and steps to take to switch their 
patients. 
 
In the Triptan class of Antimigraine medication, it was decided that there would only be 
one product now preferred, Imitrex.  The committee felt that this one medication had all 
the dosage forms needed.  There were several discussions after the meeting with Paula 
Avarista expressing concern because Imitrex did not have all the dosage forms available 
as stated, specifically oral disintegrating tablets which  some prescribers feel is necessary 
for some clients who are unable to swallow tablets during an attack. It was decided by 
DHS that this drug class would not be changed at this time and a new modified review 
and vote would take place at the September 15 meeting. 
 
In the new review for skeletal muscle relaxants, it was decided to list Soma/Carisoprodol 
as a non-preferred agent.  The committee felt that this drug has a high abuse potential and 
addictive properties. 
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:30 AM.  Next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday,  
September 15, 2009.\n