STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_Dec13.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 3, 2013 
               8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
 
 
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Cathy Cordy, RPh (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Joe Paradis, RPh (HID) 
 
 
 
  
Others Absent:   
Deidre Gifford, MD, (Xerox) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:08am.   
 
The September 2013 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Election of committee officers and committee members.  Motion made and accepted. Committee members 
accepted reelections.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and presentation topics:  
1. Jean Houtchens, Provider to pediatric  and adult CF  
2. Neil Marotta, Pfizer 
3. Tom Algozzine, Novartis 
4. Dan Foley, Boehringer Ingelheim 
5. Ray Lancaster, Gilead  
6. Christiane Arcever, Merck  
7. Drew Revel,  Genzyme 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
1. Anticonvulsants – 80.9% category compliance. Two new agents and several new generics; safety 
updates and two products with new indications. Motion to accept as the recommendations as 
presented – passes unanimously.  
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
2
2. Antidepressants, Other – new generic and branded generic for venlafaxine ER – they are 
bioequivalent. New agent, Khedezla. Category compliance at 89.9%. Suggestion to include Cymbalta® 
within this category. Motion made, accepted; discussion.  Amendment for Prestique, to have 
venlafaxine failure first. Motion made to accept recommendations with the amendment; – passes 
unanimously.  
3. Antidepressants, SSRI – Brisdelle in this category (post-menopausal women). Compliance at 90%. 
Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
4. Neuropathic Pain – new generic lidocaine patch; Category compliance 75.8%.  New guidelines for 
treatment. Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes with one abstention. Re-
look at these PA guidelines during 2014.  
5. NSAIDS - Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
6. Platelet Inhibitors - Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
7. Antianginal & anti-ischemic agents - Single agent group. Motion to accept as the recommendations as 
presented – passes unanimously 
8. Antihypertensive, sympatholytics –New category for RI. Prior meeting discussed guanfacine and 
clonidine for treatment of ADHD.  Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
9. Angiotensin Modulators & combinations- Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – 
passes unanimously 
10. Beta Blockers – No new information. Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
11. Calcium Channel Blockers – One new product used in critical care setting. Motion to accept as the 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously 
12. Lipotropics, Other – Three new products in the category, new generics and updated guidelines. 
Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously 
13. Lipotropics, Statin - FDA safety update. No changes in the category. Motion to discuss category; is 
there a message to notify the prescriber when high dose therapy occurs? Motion to accept as the 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously 
14. Antibiotics, Inhaled – New product, Bethkis, new generic and new device, Tobi Podihaler. Discussion 
to start a treatment naïve patient start on TOBI. Motion to accept as the recommendations as 
presented – passes unanimously. 
15. Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents – Two new products, Adempas and Opsumit. . Motion to 
accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
 
Confirm and post meeting date. Tentative meeting dates for 2014 include:  
April 8th, June 3rd, August 26th and December 3 rd.  
 
As always, the meetings will begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:05 AM. 
 
DUR Board  
1. take up the navigators product inclusion; note that based on plan, gold, platinum, etc coverage of the 
drug and the copays varies 
2. Review angina patients  
3. Step for Prestique, fail venlafaxine first 
4. Step therapy needed for Brisdelle 
5. Can DUR track savings when move from warfarin to newer product?  
6. MCO coverage of Xarelto and Pradaxa?\n