STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_aug_15.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, August 25th, 2015 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD  
 
P & T Members Absent:   Greg Allen, MD 
 
 
 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Ben Copple, JD (EOHHS)  
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:12 am.   
 
The June 2015 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
June Follow up Item:  Ben Copple addressed the question of antiretrovirals excluded by statute, but the committee can 
decide buy policy or on an ad-hoc basis the committee can define what we review. Committee needs to decide what 
antiretrovirals are. Discussion: should this go to DUR? Perhaps, but we may not have any expertise to do this? What are 
other third party payors doing? For AIDS, the guidelines change frequently.  One possibility is that the committee could 
develop a definition for antiretrovirals, and apply the policy on a go forward basis or at the meetings, someone can 
make an adhoc recommendation to identify if the product is an antiretroviral. MMA will check to see what is an 
antiretroviral in other states. Also, we have reviewed the oral and topical antivirals today, should we go back and look at 
the products reviewed today? No, as we have reviewed these for the past 10 years. On a go forward basis, we should 
put in place something that would let us be compliant. There was a time where the diagnosis was discriminatory, so not 
even discussed.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Tom Algozzine, Novartis, Cosentyx (secukinumab).  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion 
from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee. 
 
Category Reviews 
1. Alzheimer’s Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. Compliance is 98 % in this category.  
2. Androgenic Agents.   Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. One new product Natesto® in the category; nasal administration. Compliance 60%. No 
recommendation for a change to the category. Discussion; what restrictions are in place for the 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
transdermal? Age? Follow up with DUR to review the utilization of this and any guidelines. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; no discussion and approved with 1 opposition.   
3. Antiparkinsons Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. Prameprox now generic and the compliance is 96%. Note that amantadine is now moved to a 
new category.  
4. Antiviral Agents, Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. Discussion: Since we are moving to flu season DUR to look at the utilization for the past several 
years.  
a. HSV – no new clinical info compliance 100% note brand over generic switch for acyclovir.  
b. Influenza – no new clinical information & no changes in the recommendations.  
5. Antivirals, Topical. No changes to the recommendations. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
6. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Agents. No new clinical info & no changes to the recommendations. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
7. Bladder Relaxants. No new info, compliance 78%, No recommendations for changes. There is utilization in 
the long acting but it related to TPL. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
8. Cytokine and Calmodulin (CaM) Antagonists. New product Cosentyx.  New indication for otezla and humira 
has PI change. DUR; need to begin to look at this from a diagnostic PA. No change in the recommendations 
to the current PDL. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
9. Erythropoietins. New product Micera. There is a class BBW. Compliance is 100%. Discussion: any use of 
patient going from inpatient to outpatient can the patient continue therapy. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
10. Immunomodulators, Atopic Dermatitis. Protopic now available as generic and no changes to the 
recommendations. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
11. Ophthalmic Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
a. Antibiotics -  No new clinically significant information. 
b. Allergic Conjunctivitis – new product Pazeo. Compliance 90% add Pazeo as preferred.  
c. 
Glaucoma – please note there are 4 sub classes in this category. Good compliance in all of the 
categories.    
d. Anti-inflammatory – No new clinically significant information. No changes are recommended.  
12. Otic Antibiotics. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
13. Phosphate Binders. New prod Auryxia. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
14. Stimulants and Related Agents. Compliance 78%. New generics, new indications, new warnings in the class. 
New prod Evekeo and Aptension XR. Recommendations Concerta Authorized generic is Preferred. 
Compliance is good. Discussion: refer to DUR to begin request a review of PMP when prescribing the 
stimulants. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no further discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
15.  Anti-hypertensive, Sympatholytics. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
Discussion: how do we know how these agents are being used? Are they in conjunction with other agents? 
DUR: look at these items by age.  
2015 Meeting Schedule – December 1st 8:00 am  
 
2016 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 12th 
June 7th 
August 30th 
December 13th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:00AM\n