STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_sept_17.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, September 12th, 2017 
 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, September 12th, 2017 
8:00 AM 
DXC Technology 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  
Greg Allen, MD 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
Absent:  
 
 Scott Campbell, RPh 
 
  
 
 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology)  
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Conduent) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:08 am.   
 
The June 13th, 2017 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. 
Corey Hebert, Rhodes; Aptensio XR.  
2. 
Vadim Ichaychuk, BMS; Orencia.  
3. 
Tom Algozzine, Novartis; Cosentyx & Ciprodex.  
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion from the 
pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
a. 
Alzheimer Agents. No new products in the category; no changes recommended. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved.     
b. 
Androgenic Agents.  Recommended added Androderm; bringing compliance to 100%. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved.     
c. 
Antiparkinson’s Agents. Question are benztropine & trihexyphenidyl listed on the website? Yes via an NDC search; will 
follow up to see if there is a …. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
d. 
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Antagonists. Discussion on motion. See follow up for DUR. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
e. 
Bladder Relaxants. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
f. 
Cytokine and Calmodulin (CaM) Antagonists. Category presentation included a general biosimilar review/recent news. 
Updated indications within the products in the group; new biosimilar; three new products. No recommended changes. 
Discussion: DUR did look at lithium use with agents within the group.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; 
unanimously approved.  
g. 
Erythropoietins. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
h. 
Ophthalmic Agents. 
I. 
Antibiotics. Nothing new in the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.     
II. 
Allergic Conjunctivitis. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
III. 
Glaucoma. Nothing new in the category.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.     
IV. 
Anti-Inflammatory. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.     
i. 
Otic Antibiotics. Nothing new in the category. Recommended changes include addition of ciprofloxacin. Discussion; Add 
the polymyxin neomycin otic both the suspension and solution. Recommend remove the ofloxacin. Revised motion 
accepted and passes unanimously.  
j. 
Phosphate Binders. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
k. 
Stimulants and Related Agents.  LA products included here; new generics; two new products. Category contains 
numerous products, dose forms; are there any oral solution products available on the PDL? Dextroamphetamine oral 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, September 12th, 2017 
 
 
 
 
solution available and Quillavent XR (methylphenidate) is a suspension formulation. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; passes with one opposition.  
l. 
Antihypertensives, Sympatholytics. Short acting products included in the category; nothing new in this category. 
Captures both the clonidine and guanfacine that is being used for ADD/ADHD. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved. 
 
 
2017 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
December 12th 
 
2018 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 10th 
June 5th 
September 11th 
December 11th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:15 AM  
 
Follow Up for DUR Board 
1. 
Prospective look for Alzheimer agents with concomitant cholesterol lowering agents.  
2. 
Check on newly diagnosed metastatic prostate cancer driving the number of prescriptions.\n