STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_apr_15.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, April 7, 2015               
 8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Cathy Cordy, RPh (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
Steve Espy, (HID)  
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Ralph Racca, Administrator (EOHHS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:20am.   
 
The December meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were unanimously accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
 
1. Kathy Gann, AstraZeneca, Farixga and Bydureon 
2. Keith Miller, Janssen, Invokana 
3. Rob Picone, NovoNordisk, Vitoza, Norditropin and Levimir 
4. Robert Garis, Teva. Copaxone 
5. Walter McLain, Pfizer, Genotropin  
6. Uri Dreckshage, Genzyme, Aubragio and Lemtrada 
7.  Ray Lancaster, Gilead, Harvoni 
8. Janet Thompson, Abbvie, Viekira 
9. Amy Nunn, RI Public Health Institute & RI Hepatitis C Coalition, Harvoni and Viekira 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee. 
 
1. Acne Agents, Topical. Two new products. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
2. Antiemetics/Antivertigo. New drug Akynzeo (ax & delayed Nausea associated with CA chemotx). . 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
3. Antihyperuricemics this is a new category. Mitigare –colchcine, COLCRYS, probenecid Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
4. Bone Resorption Suppression and Related Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
5. Growth Hormone.  New information, AQ line being discontinued. Leaving only Norditropin. Motion 
made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
6. Hypoglycemics 
 
a. Alpha Glucosidase.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. 
b. Incretin Mimetics/Enhancers. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion 
on the motion. One abstention and remaining members approve the motion.   
c. Insulin and Related Agents. Question of review of new products mid-cycle. Can this be 
reviewed earlier? Yes, State can review whole therapeutic category earlier in the cycle.  
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion on the motion. One abstention 
and remaining members approve the motion.   
d. Meglitinides – No new information. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion on the motion. One abstention and remaining members approve the motion.  
e. Metformins – No changes to category.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
f. 
SGLT2 – ADA and AACE Guideline review - SGLT2 products are not first line therapy.  Motion 
made to accept. Discussion on the motion. If this is added to the PDL, what do we expect to 
see for utilization? Expect it to be another product available to the prescribers. PA criteria 
are; not to be used as sole therapy.  Amendment to recommendation; look for any other oral 
or injectable hypoglycemic agents, within the past 30 days. Point that this drug should not be 
used alone.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no further discussion. One 
abstention and remaining members approve the motion. 
g. Sulfonylureas.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
h. TZD.  FDA post marketing study. 10 year out & bladder CA. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
7. Immunomodulators, Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. 
8. MS Agents.  New agent Plegridy (peg interferon beta 1a); Gilenya, report of PML. Copaxone does have 
a 3 times a week product in comparison to the daily product.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations. Discussion on the motion. Amendment to the motion made: if a patient is on the 
non-preferred MS agent, and the patient is clinically stable/continues to walk, then the patient should 
be grandfathered on the non-preferred agent.  The motion with the amendment is unanimously 
approved.  
9. Pancreatic Enzymes. No new information. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
10. H. Pylori Agents. New category. Recommendation Prevpac. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
11. Proton Pump Inhibitors. No new information. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
12. Topical Antipsoriatics. – Taclonex, years of treatment expanded. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
13. Topical Steriods.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
a. High Potency 
b. Low Potency 
c. Medium  
d. Very High  
14. Hepatitis C Agents. New information since the December 2014 meeting where Harvoni reviewed.  
New product Viekira. Products being discontinued:  Victrelis and Peg Intron Redipen. Peg-Intron vial 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
3
will still be available. AASLA and IDSA guidelines have been updated.  Harvoni “Dear Doctor” letter 
released.  Motion made to accept the recommendations. Discussion on the motion. What are other 
States doing? And experiencing? No States, until recently had open access. Some States had Sovaldi 
preferred. States looking at metavir scores, biopsies, centers of excellence looking at different scores, 
tests, degree of cirrhotic liver, levels of enzymes. Currently 7 States of Viekira sole, several States 
Harvoni alone, several states have both. Genotypes other than 1 are emerging in the US. Today’s 
discussion is about treatment of 1a & 1b. EOHHS would like to include both Viekira and Harvoni. 
Question: are the MCOs following the FFS policy? Yes.  Should include limited prescribers? It does. 
Motion to table this discussion until June Meeting.   
 
Discussion to review bylaws at an upcoming meeting.   
 
2015 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
June 9th 
August 25th 
December 1st 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:17AM. 
 
DUR Board Follow-up. 
1. Look at patients moving between FFS and MCO > hospitalizations, unexpected results.\n