STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun_18.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 5, 2018 
 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, June 5th, 2018 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  
Greg Allen, MD 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Rick Wagner, MD 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
Absent:  
 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
  
 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology)  
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Conduent) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:05am.   
 
The April 10th, 2018 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. 
Ingrid Ma, Sunovion, Latuda.  
2. 
Amy Tomasello, Sunovion, Utibron & Seabri 
3. 
Christy Skibicki, Indivior, Sublocade 
4. 
Ruth Feder, Mental Health Association of Rhode Island 
5. 
Brian Calamari, AbbVie Mavyret (defers unless there are questions)  
6. 
Tim Birner, Alkermes, Vivitrol and Aristada 
7. 
Nicole DeVito, American Lung Association of Rhode Island  
8. 
Jane Guo, Otsuka, Rexulti 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for the quarterly review:   
 
a. 
Respiratory, Oral 
1. 
Anti-allergens. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.   
2. 
Antibiotics, Inhaled. No changes to the current agents.  Discussion; see some patients who cycle 
between products which impacts utilization. Overall utilization is small. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
3. 
Anti-histamines, Minimally Sedating. No changes recommended. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved.  
4. 
Bronchodilators 
i. Beta-Agonist. Recommendations with changes to products; including additions 
albuterol nebulizer 0.63 and 1.25mg and deletion of Foradil as product is not 
available in the market. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.  
ii. COPD Agents – new agent in class, Lonhala Magnair and new formulary of Daliresp 
250mg tablet; recommend addition of Bevespi and Combivent Respimat. Questions: 
any PDL limited dose forms? Yes. Motion made to accept the recommendations; 
unanimously approved.  
5. 
Epinephrine, Self-Injected. Supply/availability; FDA website Adrenaclick not available and no 
release date at this time. Generic epinephrine available, but “heard” of shipping issues in parts 
of the country, but not on the east coast. Continue to recommend epinephrine 0.15 and 0.3mg, 
authorized generic which is available. What happens if there is a shortage is there an automatic 
change in the system to ok the other products? No. Magellan contacts DXC for discussion and 
PDL changes can be made as necessary. The PDL is reviewed weekly. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
6. 
Glucocorticoids 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 5, 2018 
 
 
 
 
i. Inhaled – new formulation Qvar. Discussion; question/concern regarding removing of 
Qvar, what happens? In other states experience is that the prescribers shift to the 
PDL agent as they are looking for a corticosteroid. Recommend follow up with the 
DUR. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved 
ii. Oral – Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved with 
one abstention.  
7. 
Intranasal Rhinitis Agents. Recommend removal of Patanase which has no utilization. Motion 
made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
8. 
Leukotriene Modifiers. Recommend remove Zafirlukast oral as increased in cost; no utilization. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
b. 
CNS Agents 
1. 
Anti-migraine Agents. Two new generics in the category. Discussion; What about other 
products treating migraines? Brand new agent Amovig will be grouped as non-preferred; same 
as Cambia.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.   
2. 
Atypical Antipsychotics. New formulation, Aristada. New indications Latuda and Abilify 
Maintena. No changes to the recommendation as the PDL has many different products and 
dose forms available. Compliance is 95.6%. Motion made to open the class. Discussion on the 
motion.  Committee member reached out to prescriber community; indicated no complaints 
with the access to medications. Results; in favor; 1 yes and 5 no. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; the motion passes; 5 yes and 1 no.  
3. 
Opiate Dependence Treatments. New formulation, Sublocade; updated indications: Bunavail, 
Suboxone and Zubsolv.  Both Sublocade and Vivitrol are administered by a physician; prescriber 
community is well aware of the process to prescribe, access, order the product. Some 
prescribers unwillingly to stock these based on their costs. Beginning to see the trickle over to 
pharmacy claims of these two items. Utilization presented today is pharmacy only, remember 
most of these would be billed on the medical side at a prescriber’s office. Discussion: have any 
states required that these agents be on the medical side? Overlap of billing? Challenge because 
medical billing is not as sophisticated as the POS real time processing and cannot pick up the 
duplicative. What about payment rates? Difference POS and medical?  Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
4. 
Sedative Hypnotics. Given most prescribed agent is zolpidem, recommend DUR follow up on 
utilization. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
5. 
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants. Recommendations to add tizanidine tablets. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
c. 
Anti-infective Agents 
1. 
Antibiotics 
i. GI – new product Solosec; new guidelines by IDSA and SHEA for clostridum difficile. 
Motion made and discussion on the motion about metronidazole for c. diff., however 
current guidelines do not exclude this agent for c. diff. Discussion to amend the PDL 
to add vancomycin capsules. Motion made to accept the recommendations with the 
addition of vancomycin capsules; the revised motion is unanimously approved. 
ii. Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
iii. Vaginal. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
iv. Cephalosporins. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.  
v. Quinolones, Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved. 
vi. Macrolides/Ketolides. Recommend BRAND EES to be preferred and eliminate the 
clarithromycin ER. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.  
vii. Tetracyclines. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved  
2. 
Antifungal agents. A new indication for Louzoo which has expanded coverage to pediatrics. 
Recommend two deletions of combination products because the individual agents are 
preferred. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
i. Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
ii. Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
3. 
Antiviral Agents 
i. Oral  
a. 
HSV. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.   
b. 
Influenza. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved. 
c. 
Hepatitis C. AbbView news; Viekira and Technivie announced removal from 
market. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved.  
ii. Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 5, 2018 
 
 
 
 
d. 
GI Motility. Trulance updated indication for IBS-C. No changes to the recommendations. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
e. 
Methotrexate Agents. No changes to the recommendations. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved.  
f. 
Ulcerative Colitis Agents. No changes to the recommendations.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved. 
 
 
DUR – Follow up items: 
1. 
Follow up regarding the QVAR and shift.  
2. 
Triazolam – consider making it available or have more stringent PA. 
 
2018 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
September 11th 
December 11th  
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:59 AM\n