STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_19.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 17, 2019 
8:00 AM 
DXC Technology 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: 
Greg Allen, MD  
 
 
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Todd Brothers, PharmD 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Tracey Taviera, PharmD   
Rick Wagner, MD 
 
 
Absent:  
 
 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett, MHS (DXC Technology) 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (EOHHS) 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
  
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:15 am.   
 
The September 10th, 2019 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and topic:  
1. 
Affrigm Botrus, BMS, Eliquis.  
2. 
Sata Khuder,  Acetlion, Optravi and Opsumet  
3. 
Tom Algozzine, Novartis, Entresto.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion from 
the pharmacy and therapeutics committee.    
 
1. 
Angiotensin Modulators & Combinations. Standard recommendations made across the class relevant to RI’s 
participation in the National Medicaid Pooling Initiative (NMPI). These are not financial, nor utilization based.  Motion 
made and discussion. Recommendations may look different in a state based on reimbursement and utilization. Products 
recommended in this class are to offer options. Concerns regarding future cost shifts.  A recommendation was made; 
unanimously approved to accept the recommendations. 
2. 
Antianginal & Anti-ischemics. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; unanimously 
approved to accept the recommendations. 
a. 
Anticoagulants. Updated indication for Fragmin. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was 
made; unanimously approved to accept the recommendations.  
b. 
Anticonvulsants. New formulation- Sympazan film. New generic for Sabril tablets. New product in category Nayzilam 
(midazolam) nasal spray. Motion and discussion on the motion. Discussion on trying to shift patients who are on seizure 
medications; will everyone be grandfathered? Yes. Concern about moving established patients away from their 
medication to a PDL agents. Informational letters to the prescriber are useful, but concerns regarding moving the 
market share. Add to DUR board general discussion. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations. 
c. 
Antidepressants, other. New products; Spravato and Zurlesso. Expected that neither product be seen in the pharmacy 
utilization. Both have REMS program and administered by prescriber and with observation. Motion and discussion on 
Spravato, ease of access. Zurlesso considered post-partum emergency. A recommendation was made; unanimously 
approved to accept the recommendations.  
d. 
Antidepressants, SSRI. No changes to the PDL are recommended. Observation that TCA’s are not listed. Can add to 
annual discussion with State at review of the Annual NMPI review? No changes to the PDL are recommended. A 
recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the recommendations. 
e. 
Beta Blockers.  No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to 
accept the recommendations. 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
f. 
Calcium Channel Blockers. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; unanimously 
approved to accept the recommendations.  
g. 
Lipotropics, Other. New formulation Welchol 3.75mg chewable bar, flavors available. Praluent has updated indication.  
Updated Guidelines. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to 
accept the recommendations.  
h. 
Lipotropics, Statins. Livalo has new indication for patients to age 8.  No changes to the PDL are recommended. Add to 
DUR board agenda; look at statins by gender. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; 
unanimously approved to accept the recommendations.  
i. 
Neuropathic Pain. Lyrica has new indication for adjunct therapy for partial onset seizures. Change recommended for 
addition of generic Lyrica caps and Pregabalin (mirrors NMPI). Motion and discussion. Has there been a shift to Lyrica in 
other states? Perhaps look at clinical appropriateness by DUR.  Need balance of what is available based on the current 
opioid epidemic. Discussion: require specific prescriptions include the ICD10 code.  A recommendation was made; 
unanimously approved to accept the recommendations. 
j. 
NSAIDS. Updated indication on Flector patch. Question Voltaren gel availability. PDL includes Voltaren topical dose form. 
A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the recommendations.  
k. 
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents. Minimal utilization in this category. Confirm grandfathering of patients 
established on a product; yes, confirmed.  A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations. 
l. 
Platelet Inhibitors. No changes to the PDL are recommended. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to 
accept the recommendations.   
m. Bile Salts. Add the other strength. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations. 
n. 
Progestins for Cachexia. Motion and discussion.  Comparatively the Megace Suspension product is better tolerated.  A 
recommendation was made; unanimously approved to accept the recommendations. 
o. 
Rosacea Agents. No new updates and no utilization in the class. A recommendation was made; unanimously approved to 
accept the recommendations. 
 
2020 Schedule  
April 7th 
June 9th 
September 15th 
December 15th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:15 AM\n