STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_apr12.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
  
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday April 3, 2012 
               8:00 AM 
Hilton Garden Inn 
One Thurber Street/Jefferson Blvd 
Warwick, Rhode Island 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh. Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
 
 
 
L. McIntyiere Johnston, MD 
 
 
 
Matthew Salisbury, MD 
 
 
 
Richard Wagner, MD 
 
P & T Members Absent: Chaz Gross 
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
Others Present:  
Ralph Racca (RI Medical Assistance Program)  
 
 
 
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
The meeting called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:00 am.   
 
The December 2011 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote they were accepted as presented. Meeting 
minutes to approve – unanimously passed.  
 
Request to table election of committee until the June 2012 Meeting. Karen Mariano to follow up with a 
communication to the committee members asking for their intent to serve another term.  
 
Public testimony included the following presentations: Colleen Moffitt, Dan Foley, Dan Baran, Christy Owen and 
Syed Rizvi.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
 
1. 
Bone Resorption – review of class includes discussion of adding Evista to the PDL. Motion made and passes 
to discuss the presented recommendations - passes unanimously.  
2. 
Hypoglycemics 
a. alpha glucosidase – no changes to the category are recommended. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
b. 
incretin mimetics/enhancers – review of 5 new agents in the category. No evidence of better compliance 
with the newer agents. No changes to the category are recommended. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nc. 
insulins – review new indication Humalog®.   Review of Review of recommendations. Suggest 
grandfather on current PDL formulations. Motion made to accept recommendations with k– 
passes  
d. 
meglitnides - no changes to the category are recommended. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
e. Sulfonylureas - no changes to the category are recommended. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
f. 
TZDs – Avandia® is in a restricted access program and Actos® had a safety announcement 
regarding bladder cancer. No changes to the category are recommended. Motion made to accept 
recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
3. Lipotropics, Other – no new medications in the category. There are labeling updates to some products. 
Review of the AIM study which was stopped early because adding high dose niacin did not show any 
benefit.  Questions regarding OTCs on the PDL. Request DUR look at patients on Zetia and a statin; how 
many patients on both? Motion made to accept recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
4. PPI’s – new generic available for lansoprazole  15mg OTC.  Motion made to accept recommendations as 
presented – passes unanimously. 
5. Topical Acne Agents – Motion to accept recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
6. MS Agents – One FDA safety alert to note. Motion to accept recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
7. Ophthalmics, Anti-inflammatory – Motion to accept recommendations as presented – passes with one 
abstention. 
8. Growth Hormones –Motion to accept recommendations with grandfathering of patients on Genotropin® 
– passes unanimously. 
 
 
The June meeting will include the atypical antipsychotics.  
 
The dates identified for 2012 meetings are: Tuesday, April 3rd, June 5th, August 28th and December 11th. 
As always, the meetings will begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:25 AM.\n