STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2025-06/pu389.3.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: seed\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notable Dates in June 
 
June 3rd: Health Care Recruiter 
Day 
 
June 14th: Flag Day 
 
June 19th: Juneteenth 
 
June 21st: Father’s Day 
November 2020 
 
 
 
 Rhode Island Medicaid  Program  
    June 2025 
   Provider Update 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To Subscribe or update your email 
address, Send an email to: 
 
riproviderservices@gainwelltechnologies.com 
 
or click the subscribe button above. 
Please include your National Provid-
er Identifier (NPI) and the primary 
type of services you provide.  
 
Please put “Subscribe” in the subject 
line of your email. 
 
In addition to the  
Provider Update, you will also   
 receive any updates that relate to 
the services you provide. 
See page 2 for   
Table of Contents. 
State Offices will be closed in observance of the following Holidays in 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The RI Medicaid Customer Service Help Desk/Call Center will also be 
closed on the same days. 
 
The RI Medicaid Health Care Portal (HCP) is available 24 hrs./7 days for 
Member Eligibility, Claim Status, View Remittance Advice and View  
Remittance Advice Payment Amount.  
 
Click here for the HCP login page. 
 
If you’re a provider enrolled in the Medicaid program and provide  
services to the community, and you do not have a trading partner  
number to access the health care portal,  please consider enrolling for 
one.  You could benefit in using the web services for eligibility verifica-
tion, claim status and other important information to support your billing 
needs.  
Juneteenth 
Thursday, June 19th 
Independence Day 
Friday, July 4th 
Victory Day 
Monday, August 11th 
Labor Day 
Monday, September 1st 
Columbus Day 
Monday, October 13th 
Veterans’ Day 
Tuesday, November 11th 
Thanksgiving Day 
Thursday, November 27th 
Christmas Day 
Thursday, December 25th 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
RI Medicaid  
Customer Service 
Help Desk for  
Providers 
Available Monday—
Friday   
8:00 AM-5:00 PM 
(401) 784-8100  
for local and  
long distance calls 
(800) 964-6211  
for in-state toll calls  
 
June 2025 Provider Update Article Title 
 
Page 
Provider Revalidation: Revalidation is Due  
3 
Provider Enrollment—Help via RI Enrollment Email 
4 
Provider Change in Enrollment & Adding a New Provider to an Existing Group –Form Update  
5 
Attention Chiropractor Providers 
6 
Attention Clinical Psychologists 
6 
Immediate Dentures & Prior Authorization Dental Dates 
7 
Prior Authorization Form 
7 
Required Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) Provider and Direct support Profes-
sional (DSP) Training 
8 
National Background Check Program System Update Occurring in May 2025 
9 
Community Health Worker (CHW) Program Changes 
10 
CHW Program Changes (Continued) 
11 
Attention Nursing Home Providers:  Cost of Care (COC) or Applied Income updates 
11 
Pediatric Rate Change 
12 
Katie Beckett Children Turning 19 and Aging Out  
13 
Pediatric Preventive Schedule  
13 
Rhode Island Health Care System Planning Foundational Report 
14 
Update: Medicaid MAC and BAC Applications Now Being Reviewed  
14 
SFY 24 HCBS Shift Differential Attestations Due 7/31/25 
15 
EOHHS Launches Interactive Health Workforce Data Dashboard  
15 
Updates to the Healthy Rhode Mobile App for Customers 
16 
Post-eligibility Verifications Are Back for Medicaid Members  
16 
Attentional All Users of the Healthcare Portal  & Staying Connected  
17 
Healthcare Portal Eligibility and Remittance Advice  
18 
Application Assistance for Medical LTSS  
19 
The OHA Community (MDE010) Program Transition to LTSS/HCBS (MCS010) program 
19 
Nursing Home Transition Program & Money Follows the Person 
20 
SFY 24 Nursing Facility Wage Pass Through Reporting  
20 
Attention Nursing Home, Hospice, and RICLASS Providers—CSM Users  
RSVP FOR NEW TRAINING SESSIONS ADDED 
21 
Nursing Home Provider User Acceptance Testing for Patient Driven Payment Model Imple-
mentations 
22 
Nursing Home Provider User Acceptance Testing for PDPM (Continued) 
23 
Attention Community Supports Management (CSM) Users 
24 
RIte Share, RI Medicaid’s Premium Assistance Program 
24 
Pharmacy Spotlight: Stand Alone Vaccine Counseling and Meeting Schedule 
25 
Pharmacy Spotlight:  Change in RI Medicaid Fee-for-Service Preferred Drug List (PDL) effective 
May 2025  
26 
ACT NOW: Share Your Feedback on Rhode Island’s First Draft Olmstead Plan 
27 
Payment Error Rate Measurement Program (PERM) 
28 
State FY 2025 Claims Processing and Payment Schedule 
29 
Provider News and Updates, EOHHS Community Newsletter, & Supporting RI Veterans 
30 
WHAT’S NEW? 
 
Click title or page number 
to go directly to linked 
article. 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               3 
 
Page 3 
Provider Revalidation: Revalidation is Due  
 
Revalidation letters were mailed to affected providers on February 3rd .  Providers had 35 days to 
comply with the revalidation.  If you are one of the provider types listed below and you have not re-
validated, please plan to complete this process now.  Failure to comply will result in claim suspen-
sion.  
 
If you did not receive your revalidation notice, please email the Provider Enrollment team to re-
quest a copy at: rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com  
 
Here are a few tips to prepare: 
 
 A provider will have 35 days to complete their revalidation from the date of the letter.  
 Make sure to have an updated W9 ready for upload. 
 Be prepared for those disclosure questions, which can be reviewed here –  Enrollment Disclosures (ri.gov) 
 We have a handy Provider Enrollment User Guide located here –https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/
xkgbur226/files/2024-02/Provider%20Revalidation%20Guide.pdf to help answer pre-revalidation ques-
tions. 
 We also have a new FAQ located HERE - Revalidation FAQ Sheet.docx (live.com) 
Providers Required to Revalidate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have questions, please contact the Customer Service Help Desk at 401-784-8100 or 800-964-6211 
(for instate toll calls) or email: rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com. 
Dentist 
Habilitation Group Home 
Podiatrist 
Severely Disabled Nursing Homecare   
Optometrist 
BHDDH Behavioral Health Group  
Optician 
Head Start   
Skilled Nursing 
Personal Care Aide/Assistant  
Licensed Therapist 
Other Therapies/Hippotherapy  
Chiropractor 
Comprehensive Lead Center  
Freestanding Dialysis 
Home/Center Based Therapeutic Services  
Rural Health Clinic 
CEDARRS Center  
Indian Health Service 
RIteShare Copay Providers  
Children’s Behavioral Health Group 
School Dental Clinic 
Local Education Associate (LEA) 
BHDDH DD Agencies 
Early Intervention 
Nurse Anesthetist 
Substance Abuse Rehab 
Licensed Dietician/Nutritionist  
CMHC/Rehab Option 
Cortical Integrative Therapy   
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               4 
 
Page 4 
Provider Enrollment—Help via Enrollment Email 
Are you seeking assistance from Provider Enrollment by using rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com 
For all email requests please include an NPI in the subject line of the email for faster processing.  
Here are helpful hints that will help to expedite your request: 
1. 
Always include your Business NPI and if applicable, the Provider’s Name and NPI in the subject line of the email if: 
 
A. You are inquiring about Provider Status within your group. 
 
B. You are inquiring about a paper application that you sent in to add a provider.  
 
 
i. Always include the date you mailed in the application as this helps us locate your application quicker. 
 
C. You are inquiring about a service address update. 
 
D. You are inquiring about enrollment status.  
 
E. You are inquiring about a welcome letter.  
 
F. You are locked out of the Health Care Portal. 
 
 
i. Email riediservices@gainwelltechnologies.com 
 
 
Ii. Please include your User ID in the email. 
2. Terminations—due to auditing requirements, you cannot put more than one termination request per page. 
 
A. Please remember to include the individual’s NPI, your business NPI, and the termination date.  
 
B. If the provider is enrolled in multiple groups, you must send in separate termination requests for each group. 
 
C. Please send these requests in PDF form. 
3. Address updates—due to auditing requirements, please only put one provider address update per provider change form. 
 
A. Businesses or providers enrolled as individuals can change all addresses (Pay to, Mail to, Service) these changes 
 
can be updated on one Provider Change Form.  
 
 
i. To download a copy of our newest Provider Change Information form, click here.  
 
 
Ii. Please note that if you change a Pay To address a new W9 is required with an inked signature. No digital  
 
signatures are allowed and the W9 must be dated for the month the request came in.  
 
B. Providers within a group can only update Service address or Mail To addresses.  
 
 
i. If the provider has a new Service location and the business has one Mail To address, please do not change  
 
the Mail To address.  
 
 
 
i. The Mail To address should only be updated if the Business has updated their Mail To address. 
4. License Updates 
 
A. Please send these as PDF forms. 
 
B. Please include the Group NPI along with the provider’s individual NPI. 
5. Active Providers within your organization request 
 
A. We can verify that Providers are active within your organization if you provide a listing to us which includes: 
 
 
i. Name of Provider 
 
 
Ii. NPI of Provider  
 
 
Iii. NPI of Organization 
When replying to an email from rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com please be sure to REPLY ALL to make sure that 
the email chain is intact if we need to forward to someone else for assistance. 
If you would like to speak to someone instead of emailing your question, you can call our help desk at 401-784-8100. 
We are happy to assist you in whichever way works best for your situation.  
 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               5 
 
Page 5 
Provider Change in Enrollment: The Seasons are Changing and  
Potentially Your Staffing!  
 
While you let RI Medicaid know about providers leaving the practice during revalidation, RI Medicaid 
needs to be notified of this as it’s happening. 
 
Accurate enrollment is needed to ensure updates are made correctly.  
 
If you no longer wish to be FFS RI Medicaid provider and be reimbursed for services provided to RI FFS 
Medicaid recipients or you’ve changed groups within the RI Medicaid program please send a written ter-
mination statement to rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com or fax to 401-784-3892 with the 
following: 
 
• Group Name 
• Group NPI 
• Associated Provider Name 
• Associated Provider NPI 
• The date of Termination  
 
Please note, if you are a provider with one of the Medicaid MCOs in Rhode Island, you will be required to 
complete a MCO screening application if you terminate your RI FFS Medicaid Enrollment. 
 
If you have questions, please contact the Customer Service Help Desk at 401-784-8100 or 800-964-6211 
or email our provider enrollment department at rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com. 
 
In addition, please see Provider Enrollment General Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) docu-
ment found on the EOHHS website as a reference. 
 
 
 
Adding A New Provider to An Existing Group – Form Update 
 
We have recently changed our RI Medicaid paper application “Adding A New Provider to An Existing 
Group” to include a new “Date of Birth” field for an attending. This will allow us to accurately screen 
new providers in accordance with CMS guidelines.  
 
The updated application can be found on the EOHHS website Welcome | Executive Office of Health 
and Human Services under Providers & Partners > Provider Enrollment > Adding a Provider, RIte 
Share, and LEA Providers section. If you click on New Provider Joining an Existing Group link this will 
take you to the “Medicaid Provider Application”.  
 
Please begin using this new form immediately! 
 
Thank you for your continued participation in our Medicaid Program and please feel free to reach out to 
our Help Desk 401-784-8100 or Enrollment Team rienrollment@gainwelltechnologies.com for any 
additional questions.   
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               6 
 
Page 6 
Attention Chiropractor Providers 
RI FFS Medicaid will be covering chiropractic services, as we wait for this implementation to fully roll out, please 
see the new policy information below. 
 
The following table lists all chiropractor services reimbursable through the Medicaid Program. The table shows the 
procedure code, service description and the number of units.  
 
Only the three CPT codes above are reimbursable through the Medicaid Program; all other services are consid-
ered non-covered for chiropractor providers. Please see the chiropractor provider manual for more information: 
RI Medicaid Provider Reference Manual – Chiropractor 
 
For in state chiropractor providers: You will be required to submit a prior authorization after the twelfth 
(12th) visit with a member within a 365-day period. This means that if the thirteenth (13th) visit would be within 
365 days of the member’s first visit, you must submit a prior authorization in order to be reimbursed for that thir-
teenth (13th) visit. You will need to attach clinical notes with the prior authorization form for consideration of the 
service being covered past the initial twelve (12) visits within a 365-day period.  
 
Here is a link to the chiropractic prior authorization form: Chiropractor Prior Auth Form.pdf 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please reach out to your provider representative, Andrea Rohrer at  
andrea.rohrer@gainwelltechnologies.com if you have any questions. 
 
Attention: Clinical Psychologists: 
 
Effective immediately, RI Medicaid is accepting Provider Enrollment applications for Clinical Psychologists for di-
rect billing in settings where such billing is allowed (i.e. not allowed for Medicaid members in institutional settings 
like nursing homes, intermediate care facilities, inpatient hospitals and where the cost of that service is already 
included in the reimbursement for a specific service).   
 
A licensed clinical psychologist can’t bill for individual, family or group therapy for an individual in a Mental Health 
Psychiatric Rehabilitative Residences/Enhanced Mental Health Psychiatric Rehabilitative Residences (MHPRR or e-
MHPRR) but could bill for psychological testing. Please visit the RI Healthcare Portal to enroll. 
\n\n--- Page 7 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               7 
 
Page 7 
Immediate Dentures 
Immediate dentures are now a covered benefit through RI Medicaid. While we await full rollout, if you have a pa-
tient who would benefit from this service you may use corresponding conventional denture codes. Existing frequen-
cy limitations apply.  
  
 
 
Once you receive notice that the immediate denture codes have taken effect in Medicaid’s system, then you will bill 
accordingly using the immediate denture codes. 
  
Please contact Andrea Rohrer, RI Medicaid Provider Representative,  
andrea.rohrer@gainwelltechnologies.com if you have any questions. 
Prior Authorization Dental Approval Dates 
 
 
 
Starting on May 1st, 2025, Authorized dates for dental prior authorization will begin the date the dental PA 
has been reviewed and finalized by the dental consultant. You will no longer need to put in a date range on the pri-
or authorization form. This new policy will supersede any date written on the PA request form. Providers looking 
for Retroactive dates must state it on the PA form. 
 
      The authorized date span will be given according to the EOHHS Dental manual for each procedure code re-
quested.   
 
      A Treating or Performing provider signature followed by a date will be required.  This will serve as a guide for 
prior authorization origination.  The request will be returned to the requesting provider if either one is missing.     
     This new process will be implemented for both ADA Dental and RI Medical Assistance Prior Authoriza-
tion forms. 
 
Please contact Andrea Rohrer, RI Medicaid Provider Representative,  
andrea.rohrer@gainwelltechnologies.com if you have any questions. 
 
Prior Authorization Form 
 
The RI Medical Assistance Prior Authorization form has been updated. Please begin using the update form for all 
your prior authorization requests.  
 
Please see the link to view the updated form:  
 
RHODE ISLAND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FORM. 
Use the Following Corresponding Codes below 
Immediate Denture Codes 
D5110 - COMPLETE DENTURE-MAXILLARY 
D5130- IMMEDIATE DENTURE-MAXILLARY 
D5120 -COMPLETE DENTURE-MANDIBULAR 
D5140-IMMEDIATE DENTURE-MANDIBULAR 
D5211- UPPER PARTIAL-RESIN BASE (INCLUDING 
ANY CONVENTIONAL CLASPS, RESTS AND TEETH) 
D5221-IMMEDIATE UPPER PARTIAL 
D5212- LOWER PARTIAL-RESIN BASE (INCLUDING 
ANY CONVENTIONAL CLASPS, RESTS AND TEETH) 
D5222- IMMEDIATE LOWER PARTIAL 
\n\n--- Page 8 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               8 
 
Page 8 
Required Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) Provider and Direct Support  
Professional (DSP) Training 
Pursuant to the federal Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) quality assurance requirements under 42 
C.F.R. § 441.302 for all Rhode Island Medicaid HCBS providers and direct support professionals, Rhode Island is 
requiring annual completion of this training for anyone working directly with HCBS participants. 
Completion of this training annually is part of the quality measures Rhode Island reports to the Centers for Medi-
care and Medicaid Services (CMS) regarding the HCBS program. 
 
Providers and direct support professionals working with HCBS participants must register for a TRAIN ac- count 
(instructions available here) to complete the required training on an annual basis. Agencies working with HCBS 
participants are responsible for ensuring that each of their relevant staff members completes this required train-
ing. Please review the instructions for creating a TRAIN account, which also includes the course information, the 
group code to register, and contact information for assistance if needed. 
Direct care workers and/or direct support professionals working for the following HCBS provider types are re-
quired to complete the training: 
 
• 
Assisted Living 
• 
Conflict Free Case Manager (CFCM) 
• 
Cognitive Disability Organization (CDO) and Developmental Disability Organization (DDO) 
• 
Home Care 
• 
Home Delivered Meal 
• 
Shared Living 
• 
Personal Choice 
 
The training covers essential information related to HCBS and the Final Rule, including HCBS consumer rights, 
person-centered care, conflict free case management (CFCM), and critical incidents. Also included is information 
related to the No Wrong Door (NWD) approach for long term supports and services (LTSS) and how implicit 
bias can impact person-centered planning. The training was developed by an interagency team, using CMS guide-
lines to ensure compliance. Agencies working with HCBS participants cannot adapt materials in this training into 
their own training curriculum; employees of these agencies need to complete 
the training as is on the TRAIN platform. 
The training instructions and training is available in English, Spanish and Portuguese. 
 
Please reach out to your state agency program contact or ohhs.ltssnwd@ohhs.ri.gov with any questions. 
\n\n--- Page 9 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               9 
 
 
National Background Check Program System Update Occurring in May 2025 
 
The National Background Check Program (NBCP) Portal will be upgraded to the new Civil Applicant Background 
(CAB) Portal in May 2025.   
 
The NBCP Portal is used by providers whose employees or prospective employees are required under Rhode Is-
land state law to complete fingerprint-based national background checks through the Rhode Island Office of the 
Attorney General (RIAG). 
 
The old NBCP Portal link will be deactivated on May 10, 2025, at 3 a.m. 
 
The new CAB Portal link, https://bcicab.riag.ri.gov/, will become available on May 12, 2025, starting at 9 a.m. 
 
Portal Downtime for System Upgrade  
To implement this upgrade, the current NBCP Portal will be unavailable starting on Saturday, May 10, 2025, at 3 
a.m. The new CAB Portal will become available on Monday, May 12, 2025, starting at 9 a.m. Portal services will be 
unavailable during the transition period. 
 
Providers Impacted by this Change  
This upgrade applies to the following providers currently using the NBCP Portal:  
Adult Day 
Home Care 
Home Health 
Nursing Home 
Assisted Living 
Long Term Care Hospital 
Hospice 
Nursing Service Agency  
EOHHS Personal Choice Program 
EOHHS Shared Living  
 
What is Changing? 
This update will enhance security, improve performance, and streamline user experience. Providers will notice a 
redesigned login and home screen and new features for easier navigation and case tracking. The process for 
checking databases and requesting fingerprinting will not change.    
 
Next Steps for Impacted Providers 
All registered providers will receive an email from ohhs.programintegrity@ohhs.ri.gov. The email will contain a 
CAB Portal User Guide and additional details. 
 
Questions?  
For questions about this transition, please contact the Program Integrity Unit at the RI Executive Office of Health 
and Human Services at ohhs.programintegrity@ohhs.ri.gov.  
\n\n--- Page 10 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               10 
 
Community Health Worker (CHW) Program Changes — Effective May 2025 
 
Effective May 2025, the Rhode Island Medicaid Program will implement updated requirements for Community Health 
Worker (CHW) services as part of ongoing efforts to strengthen program integrity, align with national best practices, 
and ensure high-quality, medically necessary care. 
 
Rhode Island Medicaid CHW Services involve direct, non-clinical support provided by certified CHWs to Medicaid bene-
ficiaries. These services include health promotion and coaching, health education, training, and health system navigation 
intended to improve health outcomes, promote preventive care, and support individuals in navigating healthcare and so-
cial services systems.  
 
Effective May 19, 2025, Medicaid will only reimburse services with direct engagement and clear medical necessity doc-
umentation. Medicaid will discontinue reimbursement for CHW services not delivered directly to the Medicaid benefi-
ciary. To ensure billing accuracy and compliance, EOHHS will implement additional safeguards, including enforcing HIPAA
-compliant service delivery settings, preventing billing for overlapping or redundant services, appropriate use of tele-
health, and strengthening documentation requirements to align with federal Medicaid rules. Please see below for a de-
tailed timeline of these changes. 
 
Effective May 19, 2025: 
 
• 
Daily service limit of no more than two (2) hours per day per beneficiary. 
• 
Standing orders will no longer be allowed. 
• 
All CHW services must be individually authorized by a Licensed Practitioner of the Healing Arts (LPHA) who has 
direct knowledge of the beneficiary’s needs. 
• 
Enhanced billing rate (modifier U3) for new patient visits will sunset and no longer be applicable. 
• 
Discontinuation of multidisciplinary care and collateral services. 
 
Effective May 23, 2025: 
• 
All new and revalidated CHWs applicants must complete a Bureau of Criminal Identification (BCI) background check 
as a condition of Medi-caid enrollment. 
 
Effective July 1, 2025: 
 
• 
A monthly limit of no more than twelve (12) hours per month (48 units) per Medicaid beneficiary. 
• 
CHW services must be billed under newly designated service categories using specific procedure codes: S9445 
(Individual Health Promotion & Coaching or Health Education and Training), S9446 (Group Health Promotion & Coach-
ing or Health Education and Training), and H0038 (Individual Health System Navigation). 
• 
Group-based CHW sessions will be limited to no more than eight (8) Medicaid beneficiaries per session. Individual-
ized documentation and LPHA authorization will be required for each participant. 
 
Effective October 1, 2025: 
 
• 
All CHWs must obtain full certification by the Rhode Island Certification Board (RICB). Transitional certification 
pathways will sunset, and CHWs must achieve full certification by this date to remain eligible. Note:  transitional certifica-
tion eligibility will end of May 19th and all newly enrolled CHWs must be fully certified by May 19th. 
• 
All CHWs must possess a valid National Provider Identifier (NPI). 
 
Effective July 1, 2026: 
 
• 
Electronic Visit Verification (EVV) will be required for CHW services delivered in a home setting. EVV compliance 
will be mandatory for Medicaid reimbursement of home visits. 
 
 
(Continued on next page) 
\n\n--- Page 11 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               11 
 
 
Attention Nursing Home Providers:  Cost of Care (COC) or Applied Income updates 
 
For beneficiaries admitted and or residing in an Institution/Nursing Home, liability toward the cost of care/applied income be-
gins on the eligibility date and/or the first (1st) day of the month in which an application is filed.   
 
For LTSS beneficiaries transitioning to and/or from a Nursing Home, the beneficiary liability is recalculated to 
reflect the below: 
 
Institution to HCBS/Assisted Living:  If the LTSS beneficiary is discharged to the community or Assisted Living, the benefi-
ciary is responsible for paying the Cost of Care (COC) for their last month at the Nursing Facility.  Partial month beneficiary 
liability may apply when the LTSS beneficiary receives services for less than a full month due to discharge or change in LTSS 
living arrangements, such as nursing facility to home or ALF.  The beneficiary and/or the Nursing home can apply for the partial 
month consideration by submitting an LTSS change form to DHS.  DHS will pro-rate the COC and adjust the beneficiary liabil-
ity accordingly. 
 
Institution to Death:  For discharge to death, beneficiary liability for death month is $0.  
 
HCBS to Institution:  If the beneficiary transitions from HCBS or Assisted Living to the Nursing Home on the first of the 
month, the beneficiary is responsible for the full beneficiary liability to the Nursing Home for the month of admission.  If the 
transition happens from the 2nd to the end of that month, the COC will be adjusted accordingly.   
 
For case processing and eligibility-related questions, Nursing Home Facilities can contact DHS NF provider email: 
DHS.NursingHomeInquiries@dhs.ri.gov  
 
• 
Outpatient mental health and substance use services 
• 
Person- and family-centered treatment planning 
• 
Community-based mental health care for veterans 
• 
Peer family support and counselor services 
Community Health Worker (CHW) Program Changes — Effective May 2025 (continued) 
 
Summary of Key Dates: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All compliance dates can be found in the revised 
CHW Provider Manual and Section 9 
(Compliance Calendar) for detailed reference. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rhode Island Medicaid CHW Program Manual (Version 4.1) is available at: CHW-Medicaid-ProviderManual-V4.1-
FINAL-2025-05-30.pdf  
 
For additional information, please contact EOHHS Provider Services: riproviderservices@gainwelltechnologies.com 
\n\n--- Page 12 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               12 
 
 
Pediatric Rate Change 
 
Effective July 1, 2025, the pediatric rates (program MPR010) will change to the rates displayed below. 
Procedure 
Code 
Code Description 
Rate 
99202 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A NEW 
PATIENT, 15 min                                                                                                                
$71.74 
99203 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A NEW 
PATIENT, 30 min 
$111.55 
99204 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A NEW 
PATIENT, 45 min 
$167.07 
99205 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A NEW 
PATIENT, 60 min 
$220.49 
99211 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ESTAB-
LISHED PATIENT 
$23.38 
99212 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ESTAB-
LISHED PATIENT, 10 min 
$56.51 
99213 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ESTAB-
LISHED PATIENT, 20 min 
$91.22 
99214 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ESTAB-
LISHED PATIENT, 30 min 
$128.27 
99215 
OFFICE OR OTHER OUTPATIENT VISIT FOR THE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ESTAB-
LISHED PATIENT, 40 min 
$179.93 
99381 
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COMPRE-
HENSIVE HISTORY, new patient infant 
$109.06 
99382 
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COMPRE-
HENSIVE HISTORY, new patient 1-4 yrs 
$114.27 
99383 
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COMPRE-
HENSIVE HISTORY, new patient 5-11yrs 
$118.60 
99384 
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COMPRE-
HENSIVE HISTORY, new patient 12-17yrs 
$133.06 
99385 
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COMPRE-
HENSIVE HISTORY, new patient 18-39 yrs 
$129.40 
99391 
PERIODIC REEVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COM-
PREHENSIVE HISTORY, established patient infant 
$97.76 
99392 
PERIODIC REEVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COM-
PREHENSIVE HISTORY, established patient age 1-4 
$104.02 
99393 
PERIODIC REEVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COM-
PREHENSIVE HISTORY, established patient age 5-11 
$104.02 
99394 
PERIODIC REEVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COM-
PREHENSIVE HISTORY, established patient age 12-17 
$113.56 
99395 
PERIODIC REEVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT OF A HEALTHY INDIVIDUAL REQUIRING A COM-
PREHENSIVE HISTORY, established patient age 18-39 
$116.77 
\n\n--- Page 13 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               13 
 
Page 13 
FYI - Information being sent to families with renewals for households with 
children under Katie Beckett turning 19 and aging out: 
  
Katie Beckett is a Medicaid eligibility category for children under age 19 who are otherwise not eligible for Medi-
caid (based on family income) yet have serious, chronic, disabling conditions or complex medical needs, live at 
home, and would otherwise qualify to live in an institution. Children are eligible for Katie Beckett based on their 
clinical needs and their income and resources, not those of their parents.   
 
Children who turn 19 and age out of Katie Beckett will be reviewed for another Medicaid eligibility 
category including MAGI (income-based Medicaid), or Long Term Services and Support (LTSS) as 
a disabled adult (EAD) or through the BHDDH-DD program.    
 
Program participants who are between the ages of 19-21 and are found to be SSI eligible by SSA would be transi-
tioned to SSI Medicaid to cover these services. Any assistance providers can give to families with the information 
below is appreciated. DHS/EOHHS is working diligently with families of children in Katie Beckett to avoid service 
disruption. Please respond immediately to all letters and calls requesting additional information to allow DHS to 
review and transition your child smoothly into the next potential Medicaid eligibility category. 
 
For assistance, questions, or concerns, please contact the LTSS Coverage line at 401-574-8474 or email the Katie 
Beckett team at DHS.PedClinicals@dhs.ri.gov  
Pediatric Preventive Schedule  
 
The Rhode Island Executive Office of Health and Human Services, in partnership with the Rhode Island Depart-
ment of Health, is releasing updated Preventive Pediatric Recommendations, also known as the ‘EPSDT Periodicity 
Schedule.’  
 
These updates align with guidance from the American Academy of Pediatrics and are summarized below: 
 
• 
Extended schedule up to age 21 
• 
Addition of screening for Hepatitis B 
• 
Addition of screening for Hepatitis C 
• 
Addition of screening for Sudden Cardiac Arrest and Sudden Cardiac Death 
• 
Addition of screening for cervical dysplasia 
• 
Renaming of “Developmental/Behavioral Health” to “Developmental/Social/Behavioral/Mental Health” 
• 
Renaming of “Psychosocial Behavioral Assessment” to “Behavioral/Social/Emotional Screening” 
• 
Addition of Fluoride Varnish and Fluoride Supplementation 
• 
Footnote and Anticipatory Guidance updates  
 
Please see the updated Preventive Pediatric Schedule here. 
\n\n--- Page 14 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               14 
 
Page 14 
Rhode Island Health Care System Planning Foundational Report 
As required by the Governor's February 2024 Executive Order establishing the Health Care System Planning 
Cabinet, the Executive Office of Health and Human Services is pleased to share that the 2024 Health Care System 
Planning Foundational Report is now available online at eohhs.ri.gov/RI-Health-Care-System-Planning/
Reports. 
 
The new report web page contains the following information:  
• 
Background on the Health Care System Planning Cabinet’s stakeholder engagement process  
• 
The full Foundational Report  
• 
A Summary Report  
• 
Short-term recommendations from the Health Care System Planning Report (four pages). These recommen-
dations will be put forth for Cabinet consideration and prioritization in 2025 
• 
Full list of recommendations excerpted from the Health Care System Planning Report (25 pages) 
  
Background: The Cabinet, Community Engagement, and Data-Driven Decision-Making  
 
The Health Care System Planning Foundational Report summarizes the efforts, findings, and recommendations 
from the first year of Rhode Island’s Health Care System Planning Cabinet. It compiles input from a vi-
brant stakeholder process, including the participation of representatives from 11 state agencies and over 40 pro-
vider organizations, businesses, labor organizations, current health care planning tables, and community-based 
groups. Participants were organized into the EOHHS Independent Advisory Council, and then into 6 workgroups. 
In addition, the Cabinet hosted upwards of 150 experts—doctors, hospital leadership, behavioral health provid-
ers, community leaders, and state staff—at an in person retreat in November 2024.   
 
In addition to the report, the process supported the creation of several data dashboards and visuals for the Cabi-
net and workgroups. These dashboards will allow the Cabinet and Advisory Council to make data-driven deci-
sions as the planning process continues. These dashboards and visuals can be found on the RI Health Care Sys-
tem Planning Data Center.  
 
 
Update: Medicaid MAC and BAC Applications Now Being Reviewed  
 
Exciting news! The Medicaid office received 120 applications combined for the new Medicaid Advisory Committee 
(MAC) and the Medicaid Beneficiary Advisory Council (BAC).  
 
 
 
The selection committee is currently evaluating all applications and will be in touch with applicants in July with 
updates and more information. The first BAC and MAC meetings will be scheduled for early September. More 
information to come once members are selected and announced.  
 
Thank you to everyone who applied and to all who helped us spread the word about these important commit-
tees.  
Number of Applicants 
BAC 
(10-15 members allowed) 
MAC 
(20-25 members allowed) 
  
38 
82 
\n\n--- Page 15 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               15 
 
Page 15 
SFY 24 HCBS Shift Differential Attestations Due 7/31/25 
 
2021 R.I. Public Law 162 directed EOHHS to oversee a wage passthrough program related to home and community ser-
vice (HCBS) shift differential payments. Shift differentials are paid between 3:00 PM and 7:00 AM on weekdays and 
all hours on weekends and State holidays (referred to as “off-shift”) for Personal Care (S5125) and Combined Per-
sonal Care/Homemaker (S5125-U1) services. 
 
Effective July 1, 2021 (SFY 2022), the existing shift differential ($0.37) was increased by $0.19 to $0.56 per 15-
minute unit of service. One hundred percent (100%) of the $0.19 per 15-minute service unit (or $0.76 per hour) 
increase must be passed through to the nursing assistant that rendered the service. 
  
Employers must annually, on or before 7/31, submit to EOHHS an attestation affirming that all eligible employees 
received one-hundred percent (100%) of the increase in shift differential ($0.76/hour) for all hours worked “off 
shift” during the preceding July 1 – June 30. (For SFY 24, the attestation period is 7/1/2023 through 6/30/2024).  
  
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE DUE DATE FOR THESE SUBMISSIONS IS NOW ON JULY 
31st.   
  
Employers must maintain payroll records that itemize the shift differential paid to eligible employees. Such payroll 
records shall indicate the shift differential, if any, that employees received, and shall demonstrate that all eligible 
employees received an increase of at least $0.76/hour for all “off-shift” hours worked. 
  
Home Healthcare agency required shift differential pass-through amounts are now available on the 
EOHHS website with the attestation form (link included below). 
  
The SFY 24 Attestation and the pass-through amounts by agency are available on the EOHHS website: SFY 24 
Home Health Agency Shift Differentials Increase | Executive Office of Health and Human Services  
  
Providers who have not yet submitted the SFY 23 attestation may do so here: SFY 23 Home Health Agency 
Shift Differentials Increase | Executive Office of Health and Human Services 
  
Questions regarding the attestations may be sent to Medicaid Finance at ohhs.medicaidfinance@ohhs.ri.gov 
 
 
EOHHS Launches Interactive Health Workforce Data Dashboard 
 
The RI Executive Office of Health and Human Services’ new, interactive Health Workforce Data Dashboard takes 
a major step forward in understanding important characteristics of Rhode Island’s licensed health professional 
workforce. The dashboard provides valuable insights into local employment trends through the lens of equity, in-
come levels, demographic details, and more.  
 
For example: 
 
• 
Many licensed RI health professionals are not employed in RI 
• 
Black and Hispanic Registered Nurses are more likely than White RNs to have started their nursing career as 
a Nursing Assistant. 
• 
41% of all Social Workers and Mental Health Counselors employed in RI graduated from RIC 
• 
Hospitals tend to have the highest median annual wages among healthcare settings 
 
To view more data, visit our new, interactive Health Workforce Data Dashboard: https://eohhs.ri.gov/health-
workforce-dashboard. 
\n\n--- Page 16 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               16 
 
Page 16 
Updates to the Healthy Rhode Mobile  App for Customers 
 
The Healthy Rhode Mobile App recently underwent important updates to enhance both customer experience and 
operations efficiency. In addition to providing a wider array of support services through the mobile app, it is ex-
pected these enhancements will also serve to improve the customer experience both in-person and via the call cen-
ter by offering the types of services commonly sought through both of these venues, likely resulting in shorter wait 
times. These upgrades include: 
 
• 
Displaying previously submitted documents, appointments, banner messages, and notices 
• 
Allowing customers to enter reasonable explanations, along with the documents upload 
• 
Allowing customers to reset passwords and recover their username via one-time password 
• 
Allowing customers to login via Biometrics 
• 
Notifying customers of key dates and information pertinent to their case 
• 
Allowing customers to create accounts, reset passwords, and recover their usernames 
• 
Allowing customers to opt into text messages and push notifications 
• 
Allowing customers to view their Medicaid ID on the mobile app 
• 
Allowing customers to get on-demand updates of the status of their applications or recertifications/interims or 
periodic verifications 
• 
Allowing customers the ability to submit simple changes to their case and household through the mobile app 
 
These upgrades continue to further advance the customer service focus by addressing some of their most common 
needs. The ability to accomplish many of these necessary tasks through the mobile app is an exciting and extremely 
useful step that will help customers more quickly and efficiently accomplish tasks important to ensuring access to 
and continuity of benefits. 
 
Post-eligibility Verifications Are Back for Medicaid Members 
 
The State has begun conducting post-eligibility verifications (PEV) to confirm continued Medicaid eligibility for mem-
bers. PEV occurs quarterly and is in addition to a member’s annual Medicaid renewal. Rhode Island uses State Wage 
Information Collection Agency (SWICA) data from the Rhode Island Department of Labor and Training to make 
sure the information members provide is accurate and complete.  
 
You can help Medicaid members get ready for PEV by reminding them to respond with any requested documents 
right away if they receive a letter, text, or email from the State. You can also remind members to make sure their 
contact information is up to date.  
 
Learn more about post-eligibility verifications (PEV) for Medicaid members. 
\n\n--- Page 17 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               17 
 
Page 17 
Attention All Users of the Healthcare Portal 
 
It is that time of the year where we begin to think about spring cleaning…If you have a delegate user who at one 
time logged into the Healthcare portal to check eligibility, claims status etc. and no longer works for your organiza-
tion, please remember to update your trading partner profile. 
 
If you are a master user and once was a delegate user, please make sure to inactivate your delegate user ID 
. 
Please follow the steps below to update your information. 
1. Login to the portal using the trading partner number. 
2. Select Manage Accounts found on the left-hand side of the screen and scroll to the bottom. 
3. Review the delegates associated with the trading partner. 
4. If they no longer work for your organization, select their name, and inactivate them by checking the box off. 
5. Once you have completed this business task, please send your trading partner number along with a list of the 
users that can be deleted (because they are no longer active with your office) to riedis-
ervices@gainwelltechnologies.com. 
 
Staying Connected 
 
Are you a trading partner with RI Medicaid? Have you changed external or internal business processes? Have you 
had internal staff changes? If your contact information is out of date, you might miss vital information for your cov-
ered providers.  
 
Stay connected to RI Medicaid and send your email address to riproviderservices@gainwelltechnologies.com 
so that you can receive the monthly provider update with essential information for your covered providers. 
 
Clearing Houses/Billing Agencies – Managing your Trading Partner Profile 
 
Did you know you are responsible for managing the covered providers located in your trading partner profile? 
What does this mean? If you wish to conduct business on the providers behalf, you must add their NPI to your 
Covered Providers. If you would like to download the 835/277U transactions for the provider, you must also 
check off the 835/277U transaction boxes.  
 
Did you know when the provider no longer wants you to download their 835/277U, you must remove the NPI 
from your covered providers?  
 
Please select the link below for instructions on how to add and remove your covered providers. 
 
 Managing Covered Provider Guide  
 
 
** If you are no longer practicing business with a covered provider, please end date that NPI**               
\n\n--- Page 18 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               18 
 
Page 18 
 
 
Healthcare Portal Recipient Eligibility Verification 
 
The Healthcare Portal functionality for verifying eligibility allows providers to check the previous thirty-six 
(36) months and two (2) months into the future from the present date.  The maximum span of three (3) 
months per inquiry is allowed.  The timely filing rule of one (1) year from date of service applies to claims 
processing. 
 
 
Information Regarding Remittance Advice 
 
 
Just a reminder…..  
 
As a reminder, remittance advice (RA) documents are accessed through the 
Healthcare Portal. The most recent four RA documents are available for 
download.  
 
Providers must download and save or print these documents in a timely manner to ensure access to the infor-
mation needed. When a new RA becomes available, the oldest document is removed, and providers are una-
ble to access it. The Payment and Processing calendar lists the dates of the RA for your convenience.  
 
RI Medicaid does not provide printed copies of RA documents. Please see the financial schedule here.  
\n\n--- Page 19 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               19 
 
Page 19 
Application Assistance for Medicaid LTSS 
 
Sometimes, people applying for Long Term Services and Supports (LTSS) through Medicaid need help understanding 
or completing the application. There are many ways Rhode Islanders can get support.  
 
Rhode Island’s Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC), also known as the Point, can help guide 
people through the applications process. Staff are also trained in person-centered options counseling 
(PCOC). That means they can help people with disabilities, older adults, and their families identify their health care 
goals and make informed choices about their care.  
 
Many community organizations or agencies like the ones listed here can help. If you work for an agency that 
helps people complete benefit applications, consider extending that support to Rhode Islanders who may need LTSS 
through Medicaid.  
 
The people around us play an important role in our health. Anyone can help a friend, family member, or cli-
ent apply for LTSS through Medicaid.  
It is important to know that:  
• 
Whether someone is applying for LTSS through Medicaid for the first time or they’re already a client, that per-
son retains their right to choose their preferred service and provider at all times.  
• 
Individuals must meet financial and clinical criteria to qualify for LTSS through Medicaid. To learn more about 
eligibility and how to help someone apply, visit this web page form the RI Department of Human Ser-
vices.   
 
Applications for LTSS through Medicaid can be completed and submitted on-line, or printed and submitted by mail 
or in person at https://dhs.ri.gov/apply-now.  
The OHA Community (MDE010) Program Transition to LTSS/HCBS  
(MCS010) program 
 
The OHA Community (MDE010) program within MMIS and CSM will be end dated on March 8, 2025. All service 
authorizations associated with OHA Community will be transited to the LTSS/HCBS (MCS010) program. This 
change will occur automatically and does not require any action from providers. This will not impact billing for 
providers. 
\n\n--- Page 20 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               20 
 
 
  
 
  
Nursing Home Transition Program and Money Follows the Person 
 
The Nursing Home Transition Program and Money Follows the Person program (NHTP) can offer support to 
your facility, helping residents who are eligible for Medicaid return to the community, when appropriate.   
 
Referrals to the program can come from nursing home staff, residents, family, or others.  On receiving a referral, the NHTP 
Transition Team provides information and support to develop a plan and facilitate the transition, including coordinating com-
munity services and supports, helping find housing, obtaining necessary household goods and furniture, and assisting with the 
move.   
 
Transition services are available to individuals who are directly served through the RI Medicaid office and those who are 
served by a managed care organization.   
 
Following a move, the Team maintains weekly contact with an individual for the first thirty days and establishes a care manage-
ment plan for subsequent follow up.    
 
To refer someone interested in discussing options for returning to the community, complete a referral form and fax it to 
(401) 462-4266.  The form can be found on the Rhode Island Executive Office of Health and Human Services website via a link 
on the Nursing Home Transition Program webpage:   
https://eohhs.ri.gov/Consumer/NursingHomeTransitionProgram.aspx.   
 
We welcome your questions and feedback and are happy to meet with your staff.  Please contact us by email at 
ohhs.ocp@ohhs.ri.gov, by telephone at (401) 462-6393 or individually using the information below. 
 
Contact Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Ethier 
Money Follows the Person Program Director 
robert.ethier.ctr@ohhs.ri.gov  
(401) 462-4312 
SFY 24 Nursing Facility Wage Pass Through Reporting Due 7/31/25  
 
Pursuant to Rhode Island General Law § 40-8-19, nursing facilities are required to pass through 80% of any 
rate increase to the direct care, indirect care, and other direct care components of the nursing facility payment 
between 10/1/2023 and 9/30/2024. Current law also requires that the Executive Office of Health and Human Ser-
vices collect certification forms from nursing facilities attesting to compliance with the required wage pass through.  
 
The FFY2024 Nursing Facility Wage Pass-Through portal is now live. EOHHS has also posted the required pass-
through amounts for each facility as well as provider guidance. The portal, pass-through amounts, and guidance can 
be accessed in the Nursing Home provider directory on the EOHHS website, linked here: Nursing Homes | Ex-
ecutive Office of Health and Human Services 
 
The deadline to submit the FFY 2024 (10/1/2023 through 9/30/2024) attestation is 7/31/2025.  
 
Required information can be submitted in three ways:  
Upload an Excel file using the Excel template available in the portal. No other Excel files will be accepted.  
Upload copies of collective bargaining agreements, if applicable.  
Manual entry of employee information  
 
EOHHS recommends that facilities utilize options one and two as these will lessen the amount of time it takes to 
complete the certification.  
 
If you have questions, do not hesitate to reach out to the Medicaid Finance Team via email: 
OHHS.MedicaidFinance@ohhs.ri.gov 
\n\n--- Page 21 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               21 
 
Page 21 
Attention Nursing Home, Hospice and RICLASS Providers – CSM Users 
Please note updated Training Session information at bottom of page 
 
Gainwell Technology will be offering two sessions reviewing this change. Please note that the trainings 
have been postponed. Providers will be notified when the rescheduled training dates are.  Please continue 
to prepare for this change by following the below instructions.   
 
EOHHS has requested that Gainwell move the Nursing Home Admission/Discharge slip functionality from Com-
munity Supports Management (CSM) web application to the Healthcare portal (HCP). This will include moving 
the Nursing Home Admission/Discharge Dashboard currently used by case managers to update the statuses of 
current slips. One of the CSM features in use today is for health care providers to report the admission and dis-
charge of a Medicaid recipient to a nursing facility for long-term care services.  
 
RI Gainwell will move the Admission/Discharge Slip process and Dashboard from the current CSM platform to a 
new admission/discharge slips web page and dashboard in the HCP. Today providers who have trading partner 
IDs will have access to enter Admission/Discharge Slips on the Healthcare portal. 
 
In addition to providers using the new platform, Case workers and Case Managers will also access the Admission/
Discharge Dashboard allowing them to update the status of existing slips. 
 
In preparation for the new functionality on the healthcare portal, we will provide training prior to implementation 
of the new function early next year. In the meantime, we are asking for you to review your current access. 
• 
If you do not currently have access to the healthcare portal but use the CSM platform, the primary/master 
user of the trading partner number will need to add you as a delegate user of the portal. Once you have been 
added as a delegate user to the healthcare portal, you will need to register. For instructions on how to regis-
ter select  RI Medicaid Healthcare Portal. 
• 
As the primary/master user of the health care portal, you will need to add new delegate users and provide 
them with the information needed to register their information creating a security profile. For instructions on 
how to add delegate users select RI Medicaid Healthcare Portal. Once the new function has moved to 
production (Winter 2025) you will check off the new function Admit/Discharge Role for your delegate 
users.  
• 
If you are a current CSM and HCP user, there will be a one-time update to add the admit/discharge function-
ality if you are a current CSM and HCP user. 
 
***New! Please see Training Session Participation Information below*** 
 
Gainwell Technology will be offering two sessions reviewing this change, click here to RSVP for a 
session:  
• Wednesday June 11th at 9:30-10:30 am  
• Friday June 13th at 1:00-2:00 pm  
\n\n--- Page 22 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               22 
 
Page 22 
Nursing Home Provider User Acceptance Testing for  
Patient Driven Payment Model Implementation 
 
Effective 10/1/25, the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) will no longer provide data support for the Re-
source Utilization Group (RUG); instead, CMS will provide data support for the Patient Driven Payment Model 
(PDPM). RI Medicaid is moving to the CMS supported PDPM model starting 10/1/25. RI Medicaid is extending to 
Nursing Homes, Hospice Providers, and MDS vendors the opportunity to participate in the User Acceptance 
Testing (UAT) phase of PDPM testing during July 2025. The deadline to sign-up for this important testing is June 
30, 2025. Please see links below.  
 
This will allow providers the opportunity to submit June 2025 Production claim files to a test environment. Pro-
viders can then compare claims payments made using PDPM pricing in the test environment against the same June 
2025 claims made in Production using the Remittance Advice. 
 
We strongly encourage all Nursing Homes, and those responsible for updating the MDS data, to take advantage 
of this opportunity. This will provide you valuable insight into how your claims will be processed beginning Octo-
ber 1, 2025.  Please note, with process changes for PDPM, MMIS will now require both the SSN and DOB, in or-
der to process all MDS records. 
 
What do I need to do to sign up for this opportunity? 
 
Since participants will need access to the test area of the Healthcare Portal, they will need a testing Trading Part-
ner ID. To obtain a testing Trading Partner ID: 
 
Click https://www.riproviderportal-uat.org/hcp/provider/Home/tabid/135/Default.aspx 
 
Select this link for guidance to enroll as a test Trading Partner: https://www.riproviderportal-uat.org/HCP/
hp/ushc/docs/provider/TradingPartnerEnrollmentUserGuide_en-us.pdf 
 
Some information to remember as you navigate through the enrollment process: 
 
• 
Please make sure to include the correct contact information. This is how we will reach out to you upon 
completion of Trading Partner enrollment. 
• 
Make sure to check off View Remittance Advice. 
• 
Make sure to add your NPI as a covered provider. Do not check off the 835/277 boxes.  
• 
Make sure to check off the box for viewing the Trading Partner Agreement (the page will not go forward if 
not checked). 
• 
The Healthcare Portal will send out automated emails upon completing your Trading Partner enrollment. 
Please follow the instructions in the automated emails to register your Trading Partner ID and verify your 
email address. 
• 
If you currently use a clearing house to submit claims on your behalf, please share the email with them. 
 
RI Medicaid will post the Remittance Advices to the testing Healthcare Portal for providers to view, download, 
and review. The Remittance Advice downloaded from this site is for testing use only, and 
should not be used to reconcile your current accounts. You will continue to receive your production Remit-
tance Advice as you do today for reconciliation. 
  
(Continued on next page) 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 23 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               23 
 
Page 23 
Nursing Home Provider User Acceptance Testing for Patient Driven Payment Model  
Implementation (Continued) 
 
When will I be able to access this information? 
 
The test Remittance Advice for June 2025 dates of service will be available for viewing at the end of the testing 
window. Participants will be notified of the specific starting and ending dates closer to the testing window. 
 
What should I be looking for when reviewing my test Remittance Advice? 
 
For paid claims: 
PDPM Code - Verify that it matches the PDPM you were expecting. This can be determined by looking at the 
PDPM code on the assessment record associated for the June 2025 period. 
Paid Amount - Verify that the paid amount is the appropriate amount based on the rate information OHHS 
has provided to you previously based on PDPM code minus any patient liability. 
 
For suspended claims: 
Edit 252 – “PDPM / Rug Code Missing or invalid (ZZZZZ/AAA)” edit will stamp when there is no PDPM code 
on file or PDPM code ZZZZZ is determined.  
This indicates, there is no active assessment for the dates of service, or the assessment record contained a 
ZZZZZ or blank PDPM code. 
Edit 263 – “PDPM/RUG Provider Rate not on file” edit will stamp when there is no active rate for the provider 
on file. 
 
For denied claims: 
EOB 916 – “PDPM/RUG code cannot be determined” will stamp on the denied claim when there is no PDPM 
code on file or a ZZZZZ PDPM code is found for the dates of service billed. 
EOB 918 – “PDPM/RUG Provider Rate not on file” will stamp on the denied claim when there is no provider 
rate on file. 
 
Please Note: When you begin navigating in the test/UAT health care portal, you will notice the envi-
ronment looks exactly like production where you login regularly. Confirm you’re in the test environ-
ment by checking the top address bar— it should contain “www.riproviderportal-uat.org”— this en-
sures you’re indeed in the correct place. 
 
 
 
Questions? 
Please find a copy of the PDPM Information Guide here. This current version of the guide has been updated 
since the April 15th provider communication email. The document outlines requirements the Medicaid Manage-
ment Information System (MMIS) needs to successfully process MDS records. Please note: We ask that you submit 
any pending MDS records in a timely manner;  this will ensure optimal processing.  
 
If you have any further questions, please contact: 
 
For EDI / 837 submissions, questions, or issues send an email to: riediservices@gainwelltechnologies.com  
 
For other provider related questions send an email to: marlene.lamoureux@gainwelltechnologies.com  
\n\n--- Page 24 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               24 
 
Page 24 
Attention Community Supports Management (CSM) Users 
 
The Community Supports Management Website was designed to help users enter forms electronically.  Users can 
enter the following forms on the CSM without a need to fax them over to the local DHS office: 
 
Nursing Home Admission Slips 
Nursing Home Discharge Slips 
 
In order to gain access to the CSM Website, all new users must fill out and submit a CSM User ID form 
which can be found on the www.eohhs.ri.gov website.   
 
Please email the completed form to Nelson.Aguiar@gainwelltechnologies.com.   
 
Once the form is received, please allow 7-10 business days to process your request.  The user will receive an 
email with their CSM User ID, a temporary password, and a link to the CSM with some basic instructions on log-
ging in.    
 
Please remember that passwords must be between six and eight alphanumeric characters in length, contain no 
special characters or spaces, cannot be all nines and expire every 90 days.   
 
For passwords that require Gainwell to reset them for you, please email rixix-ticket-
system@gainwelltechnologies.com.  
 
***Important Reminder*** 
 
Please remember as a user of the Rhode Island Community Supports Management System (CSM), it is your agen-
cy’s responsibility, upon someone leaving your workforce, to notify the State of Rhode Island Executive Office of 
Health and Human Services or Gainwell to revoke access to the CSM.   Requests for termination of access must 
be sent on the CSM User Form, with the selection of “Delete” at the top of the form.    
 
Please send the form to Nelson.Aguiar@gainwelltechnologies.com  to have the worker’s access to CSM 
removed. It is our shared responsibility to prevent unauthorized access to the CSM and to protect and safeguard 
the Personal Health Information of our Health & Human Services program enrollees.   
 
 
RIte Share, RI Medicaid’s Premium Assistance Program 
  
RIte Share is RI Medicaid’s Premium Assistance program that helps Medicaid-eligible individuals pay for the cost of 
their employer-sponsored insurance (ESI), as well as deductibles, coinsurance, and some additional Medicaid bene-
fits not covered by commercial health insurance.  State legislation and regulation authorizes the State to offer this 
program which is a condition of Medicaid eligibility (RIGL 40-8.4-12, RIGL 40-8-27, 210-RICR-30-05-3). When the 
State determines that a member’s employer offers what the State determines to be cost-effective ESI, the member 
will receive a Go Enroll packet. Once a Medicaid member is enrolled in RIte Share, when seeking services, their 
commercial insurance will be primary, Medicaid fee-for-service (anchor card) will be secondary. 
  
A few significant factors that contribute to the success of the RIte Share program are that employers respond to 
the State when asked to provide insurance rates and Summary of Benefits on an annual basis; employers under-
stand that RIte Share is a the qualifying event for enrollment in ESI; and employers or members notify the RIte 
Share unit when the employee leaves their job. 
  
For a RIte Share Fact Sheet, log on to  https://eohhs.ri.gov/Consumer/FamilieswithChildren/
RIteShare.aspx. For more information, please contact the RIte Share Unit at ohhs.riteshare@ohhs.ri.gov or 
462-0311.  
  
\n\n--- Page 25 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               25 
 
Page 25 
Pharmacy Spotlight 
 Attention FFS Pharmacy Providers – Stand Alone Vaccine Counseling  
 
The Rhode Island Medicaid Fee-for-Service (FFS) program will be implementing the Stand-Alone Vaccine Counseling 
project April 22, 2025. This project allows pharmacies to be reimbursed for vaccine counseling services using the 
Service Billing (S1) and Service Reversals (S2) Transactions on the NCPDP transaction standard for the services 
listed below.  
 
This implementation is necessary due to the requirements posed in the CMS SHO #22-002 and the Public Readi-
ness and Emergency Preparedness (PREP) Act which require stand-alone counseling for COVID-19 and state ap-
proved vaccines under Medicaid Early Periodic Screening, Diagnostic, and Treatment (EPSDT) benefit where the 
recipient is a Medicaid beneficiary under the age of 21. 
 
The RI FFS payer sheet was updated to reflect new values that will be allowed for processing the following HCPCS 
codes:  
• G0314, COVID 19, ages under 21, 16 to 30 minutes  
• G0315, COVID 19, ages under 21, 5 to 15 minutes  
• G0312, ages under 21 (Non-COVID), 5 to 15 minutes  
• G0313, ages under 21 (Non-COVID), 16 to 30 minutes  
 
The RI FFS payer sheet has been updated to reflect new values that will be allowed for this processing. Link: Pay-
er_Sheet_D.0.Revised 04.08.2025.pdf 
 
If you have any questions, please contact Karen Mariano, RPh at karen.mariano@gainwelltechnologies.com. 
 
Meeting Schedule:  
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee and Drug Utilization Review Board 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next meeting of the  
Pharmacy & Therapeutics  
Committee (P&T) is scheduled for: 
  
Date:   June 10, 2025 
 
In Person Registration on site: 7:30 
AM 
 
Meeting: 8:00 AM 
 
Location: Executive Office of Health and Human 
Services, Virk’s Bldg., 3 West Road, Cranston, RI  
 
The next meeting of the Drug Uti-
lization Review (DUR) Board is 
scheduled for: 
  
Date:  June 10, 2025 
 
In Person Registration on site: 
10:15 AM 
 
Meeting: 10:30 AM 
 
Location: Executive Office of Health and Human 
Services, Virk’s Bldg., 3 West Road, Cranston, RI  
2025 Meeting Dates: 
June 10, 2025 
September 9, 2025 
December 2, 2025 
\n\n--- Page 26 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               26 
 
To view the entire Preferred Drug List please check the Rhode Island EOHHS Website at: 
http://www.eohhs.ri.gov/ProvidersPartners/GeneralInformation/ProviderDirectories/
Pharmacy.aspx 
Contraceptives, Other 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Twirla 
  
  
GI Motility, Chronic 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Amitiza 
Growth Hormone 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Nutropin AQ Pen 
  
Growth Hormone 
Changed status to Preferred 
Norditropin Pen 
  
Hypoglycemics, Insulin and Related Agents 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Insulin glargine pen 
Insulin glargine vial 
  
  
  
Hypoglycemics, SGLT2 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Invokamet 
Invokana 
  
  
Pancreatic Enzymes 
Changed status to Preferred 
Viokace 
Zenpep 
  
Phosphate Binders 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Renvela Powder Pack 
Renvela tablet 
Phosphate Binders 
Changed status to Preferred 
sevelamer carbonate powder pack 
sevelamer carbonate tablet 
  
Ulcerative Colitis Agents 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Lialda 
Ulcerative Colitis Agents 
Changed status to Preferred 
mesalamine (generic Lialda) 
mesalamine (AG) (generic Lialda) 
  
Weight Management Agents 
Changed status to Non-Preferred 
Saxenda 
The following is a new class of drugs managed on the RI Fee-for-Service Preferred Drug List effective May 
2025 
Sickle Cell Anemia Treatments 
Preferred 
Adakveo 
Casgevy 
Endari 
hydroxyurea 
Lyfgenia 
Siklos 
  
Sickle Cell Anemia Treatments 
Non-Preferred 
Droxia 
glutamine powder pack 
The following drugs changed status on the RI Medicaid Fee-for-Service Pre-
ferred Drug List (PDL) effective May 2025 
 
Pharmacy Spotlight 
\n\n--- Page 27 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               27 
 
Page 27 
ACT NOW: Share Your Feedback on Rhode Island’s First Draft Olmstead Plan!  
 
As we move into the final phases of Rhode Island’s Olmstead Planning Process, we want to extend a huge thank you 
to everyone who has contributed to shaping this plan. Your participation in community listening sessions, advisory 
group meetings, surveys, interviews, and workgroups has ensured that the Olmstead Plan is reflective of real com-
munity needs.  Between August 2024 and February 2025, our collaborative efforts have resulted in a comprehensive 
Olmstead Plan that reflects the priorities of Rhode Islanders with disabilities. Here’s what we’ve accomplished:  
 
✅ 44 members of the Olmstead Advisory Group (OAG) met monthly to drive the planning process.  
✅ 26 state agencies provided support and policy input to align the plan with broader statewide efforts.  
✅ 150+ community surveys collected, 42 key informant interviews completed, and direct input from eight 
OAG members with lived experience incorporated.  
✅ 430 disability community members engaged through public forums, community meetings, and discus-
sions.  
✅ Four public workgroups met regularly with 26 to 49 participants per session, resulting in:  
• 
6 major goals for disability inclusion  
• 
12 community strategies  
• 
73 community-prioritized recommendations  
• 
120 identified assets and data sources  
 
✅ Responses were obtained in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and American Sign Language and focused on all disabili-
ties:  
 
 
This work ensures that the voices of historically marginalized communities—including BIPOC, formerly 
incarcerated individuals, unhoused individuals, veterans, and people with all types of disabilities—are 
centered in this plan. Now, we need your final input! The Draft Olmstead Plan is available for review, and we 
encourage all community members, advocates, and partners to provide feedback.  
 
View the Draft Plan & Complete the Feedback Survey Here:  EOHHS Olmstead Planning Website  
Rolling Deadline for Feedback 
 
*Please note: Submission form will remain live for additional feedback but initial feedback received by the deadline will be 
used to inform Version 2.0.  
\n\n--- Page 28 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               28 
 
Page 28 
 
PAYMENT ERROR RATE MEASUREMENT PROGRAM (PERM) 
ADDITIONAL MEDICAL RECORDS REQUESTS 
 
CMS PERM Review Contractor, NCI Information Systems, Inc. continues to review randomly selected 
samples of claims to request medical records for.  Additional (First, Second, Third/Final Notice of Non-
Response) medical records requests are mailed to providers.  
 
If you receive one of these requests, please follow the instructions for submission. This request, as pic-
tured below, is a legitimate request from a CMS contractor. Failure to submit medical records could lead 
to claim recoupment.  
\n\n--- Page 29 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               29 
 
Pa
 State FY 2025 
Claims Payment and Processing Schedule 
View the SFY 2025 Payment and Processing  Schedule  on the EOHHS website  
 
      Payment And Processing Schedule | Executive Office of Health and Human Services 
MONTH 
LTC CLAIMS Due at 
Noon 
EMC CLAIMS Due by 
5:00PM 
EFT 
PAYMENT 
  
  
7/05/2024 
7/12/2024 
July 
            7/11/2024 
7/12/2024 
7/19/2024 
  
  
7/26/2024 
8/02/2024 
  
  
  
August 
8/08/2024 
8/09/2024 
8/16/2024 
  
  
8/23/2024 
8/30/2024 
  
  
  
September 
9/05/2024 
9/06/2024 
9/13/2024 
  
  
9/20/2024 
9/27/2024 
  
  
  
  
10/04/2024 
10/11/2024 
October 
            10/10/2024 
10/11/2024 
10/18/2024 
  
  
10/25/2024 
11/01/2024 
  
  
  
November 
           11/07/2024 
11/08/2024 
11/15/2024 
  
  
11/22/2024 
11/29/2024 
  
  
  
December 
12/05/2024 
12/06/2024 
12/13/2024 
  
  
12/20/2024 
12/27/2024 
  
  
  
January 
  
1/03/2025 
1/10/2025 
  
1/09/2025 
1/10/2025 
1/17/2025 
  
1/24/2025 
1/31/2025 
  
  
  
February 
2/06/2025 
2/07/2025 
2/14/2025 
 
  
2/21/2025 
2/28/2025 
  
  
  
March 
3/06/2025 
3/07/2025 
3/14/2025 
  
  
3/21/2025 
3/28/2025 
  
  
  
  
4/04/2025 
4/11/2025 
April 
4/10/2025 
4/11/2025 
4/18/2025 
  
  
4/25/2025 
5/2/2025 
  
  
  
May 
5/08/2025 
5/09/2025 
5/16/2025 
 
  
5/23/2025 
5/30/2025 
  
  
  
June 
6/05/2025 
6/06/2025 
6/13/2025 
  
  
6/20/2025 
6/27/2025 
  
  
  
July 
  
7/04/2025 
7/11/2025 
  
7/10/2025 
7/11/2025 
7/18/2025 
  
7/25/2025 
8/01/2025 
\n\n--- Page 30 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
June 2025                                                      Volume 389 
 
 
 
 
               30 
 
Page 30 
 
Keep up to date with all provider news and up-
dates on the EOHHS website: 
 
 Provider News 
 
Provider Updates 
 
             
 
EOHHS Community Newsletter 
 
Each quarter, we distribute a community newsletter that provides detailed updates from EOHHS, RI Medicaid, 
and our sister agencies. Our newsletter establishes a regular cadence to connect with community partners and 
stakeholders by providing them with up-to-date and pertinent information about health and human services initi-
atives, programs, and related engagement and outreach activities.  
 
Sign up for EOHHS' Community Newsletter to stay updated on health and human services initiatives, pro-
grams, and outreach efforts! It's the best way to stay in the know about all our community-focused work. 
When Veterans Need Support, You’re on the Front Lines 
Rhode Island is a strong community made up of fighters, families, and friends. Together, we have the 
power and the resources to save lives of  Veterans. They served for us. Now it’s time to serve for 
them. If you know a Veteran looking for assistance, a wide range of services are now available, from 
peer counseling to support with health, housing, employment, and much more.  
Healthcare professionals can find resources to support Veterans here.\n