STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_15.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 1, 2015 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:07 am.   
 
The August 2015 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Election of Committee Officers for 2016. Motion made by S. Campbell, 2nd R. Wagner to elect D. Feeney, Chairperson, 
R. Marcoux as Co-Chairperson. Motion passes with two abstentions (D. Feeney and R. Marcoux) .  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Daniel Shan, Astra Zeneca, Brilinta.  
2. Dan Foley, BIPI, Pradaxa. 
3. Chery lAnne Krus, Pfizer, Lyrica, Eliquis, Pristiq and Flector. 
4. Tom Algozzine, Novartis, Entresto 
5. Bhavisha Desai, United Therapeutics, Adcirca. 
6. Marjory Levey, UCB, Vimpact. 
7. Christopher Carello, Takeda, Brintellix.  
8. Arlene Price, Janssen, Xarelto.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion 
from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee. 
 
Category Reviews:   
1. Angiotensin Modulators & Combinations. Motion made to accept the recommendations. Motion approved and 
discussion; request information unanimously approved.  
2. Antianginals & Anti-ischemics. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
3. Anticoagulants. New product Savaysa (endoxaban).  Refer DUR to coordinate with inpatient continuation of 
therapy. Question; do we know how many patients that start inpatient then continue outpatient. Motion made 
to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
4. Anticonvulsants. Question; is there availability as generic. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
5. Antidepressants, other. Addition of bupropion XL as preferred agent. Discussion; new drugs without head to 
head studies and have interactions. Future DUR topic and PA for item; medication therapy 4-6 weeks with or 
without improvement. 
6. Antidepressants, SSRI’s. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved 
7. Beta Blockers. New product Sotylize (sotalol) oral solution daily dosing. Recommend change from brand to 
generic Toprol to generic because generic price has decreased sufficiently to move to generic. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved 
8. Calcium Channel Blockers. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
9. Lipotropics, other. Two new drugs Praluent (alirocumab) as SQ dose biweekly and Repatha (evolucumab). Both 
have very specific indications. Note recommendation have Tricor and Triplex as brand preferred. Motion made 
to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
10. Lipotropics, statins. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved. 
DUR may want to look at gender differences in this category.  
11. Neuropathic pain. New drug Irenka (duloxetine). Compliance in this category is 67%. Recommending adding 
generic Cymbalta). FYI, each generic company is making duloxetine in a different way, fyi, Irenka is a different 
dose. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved 
12. NSAIDS. Question; can celecoxib be added? No. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion 
and unanimously approved 
13. PAH Agents. Question; note fail first of PDL is very reasonable. This is another category that outpatient should 
follow inpatient therapy. Question; regarding you do not see inhaled on the point of service pharmacy claims. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved 
14. Platelet Inhibitors. New drug Drulaza (aspirin ER). Recommend add Brilinta as preferred. Patients will be 
discharged from the hospital on this item. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
 
 
2016 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 12th 
June 7th 
August 30th 
December 13th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 AM\n