STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_apr13.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, April 16th, 2013 
               8:00 AM 
Hilton Garden Inn 
One Thurber Street/Jefferson Blvd 
Warwick, Rhode Island 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh. Chairperson 
Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Richard Wagner, MD 
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent: Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD  
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Joe Paradis, RPh (HID) 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:08 am.   
 
The December 2012 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and presentation topics:  
1. Neil Narotta, Pfizer - Genotropin,  
2. Tom Algozzine, Novartis  –  Gilenya  
3. Justin Bakshai, Novo Nordisk – Victoza, Levamir and Nortropin 
4. Chritiane Arcever, Merck – Januvia and Janumet 
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
1. Acne Agents Topical – Move to accept recommendations. Discussion on the motion includes payment as 
secondary for claims; this category has claims which are not preferred. Medicaid pays as secondary 
without prior authorization if primary payor pays greater than 50% of a claim. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented; passes unanimously.   
2. Antiemetic/Antivertigo Agents – Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; passes 
unanimously.   
3. Bone Resorption Suppression and Related Agents – to accept recommendations. Discussion on the motion 
includes FDA safety concerns regarding Fortecal and recommendation to include on the PDL. No current 
utilization of Fortecal.  Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; passes with 1 
opposition.    
4. Growth Hormone – Recommend DUR board contact prescribers who are not using PDL GH. HP to review 
claims for primary payment by Medicaid before contacting prescriber. Motion on the floor to accept 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
5. Hypoglycemic Agents  
a. Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitor - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. 
Passes unanimously.  
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
b. Incretin Mimetics/Enhancers – DUR Board to review. Motion on the floor to accept 
recommendations as presented. Passes with one abstention.  
c. 
Insulin and Related Agents – Move to accept recommendations. Discussion on the motion. If pen 
available within the subclass, then the preferred agent pen should be tried before the non-
preferred pen is approved through the prior authorization process. Motion amended on the floor 
to accept recommendations as presented. Passes with one abstention. 
d. Meglitinides - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
e. Metformins - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
f. 
Sulfonylureas - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
g. 
TZDs – Compliance is a 61% because of introduction of the generic. Motion on the floor to accept 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
6. Multiple Scleroris – Presentation of the TCR includes review of data of compliance shows 4 prescriptions 
in a quarter, therefore compliance is low based on low volume of claims. Relative cost of Amypra is 
considerably higher. Ampyra guidelines for PA should be approval for 6 months intervals asking for 
assessment of walking distance every 6 months and other and is it still effective. DUR Board to follow up 
as discussed. Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
7. Pancreatic Enzymes - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously. 
8. Proton Pump Inhibitors – Motion to accept the recommendations with caveat that is acceptable to the 
policy. Discussion to include the solutabs; which are accessible through prior authorization guidelines. 
Passes unanimously.   
9. Antipsoriatic Agents - Compliance is skewed based on low volume of claims; DUR Board to send out 
letters if the claim is primary to Medicaid on the calcipotriene cream asking prescriber to consider 
prescribing a preferred agent for patients. Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. 
Passes unanimously.  
10.  Steroids Topical – Committee wants to review based on sub-category. 
a. High Potency - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously. 
b. Low Potency - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously. 
c. 
Medium Potency - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously. 
d. Very High Potency - Motion on the floor to accept recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously. 
 
At the June meeting a request to provide commentary about anti-coagulation therapy; restrictions for preferred 
agents.  
 
The Pharmacy & Therapeutics committee would like to acknowledgement of the passing of Ray Maxim and his 
contributions to the Committee.  
 
The dates identified for the 2013 meetings are: June 4th, August 27th and December 10th.  
As always, the meetings will begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:35 AM.        
 
   
Following up with DUR: 
1. 
Recommend DUR board contact prescribers who are not using PDL GH. 
2. 
Review of Incretin Mimetics/Enhancers\n