STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/pandt_bylaws.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nPage 1 of 4 
 
Executive Office of Health & Human Services  
Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee By-Laws 
 
Rhode Island Fee for Service Medicaid Program 
Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee 
By-Laws 
 
November 2006 
December 2007 
    June 2015 
 
Article I - POLICY 
Section 1 
The Rhode Island Medicaid Fee for Service (FFS) Program Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) Committee 
was created pursuant to RIGL 40-21-1 to develop and review the Preferred Drug List (PDL) and 
associated utilization protocols.  Determinations of drugs included on the PDL will be made by the 
State Department of Human Services, and a listing of such drugs shall be maintained on a public 
website.  In making these determinations, the Department shall consider the recommendations of the 
Medicaid Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics Committee, whose membership shall include practicing 
pharmacists and physicians, faculty members of the University of Rhode Island’s College of Pharmacy, 
and consumers or consumer representatives.  Drugs except from the PDL shall include: (1) anti-
retrovirals; and (2) organ transplant medications.  Physicians will be informed about prior 
authorization procedures for medications not on the PDL, and seventy-two (72) hour emergency 
supplies may be dispensed if authorizations cannot be obtained. 
Article II - PURPOSE 
Section I - Duties 
The P&T Committee will act as an advisory committee to the Medicaid Program for the PDL. The 
Committee will recommend a Preferred Drug List (PDL) that promotes the use of safe and effective 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) - approved medications. The Committee will ensure that the   
PDL is based on sound clinical evidence that is both safe and cost-effective. 
Section II - Process 
The P&T Committee is a standing committee that will report its’ activities and recommendations to the 
Department. It is an advisory committee for the Rhode Island Medicaid Program, designed to ensure 
unbiased clinical perspective in areas such as drug evaluations and utilization protocols. 
The P&T Committee will review new and existing therapies using criteria established for efficacy, 
safety, and quality. Following this evaluation, cost factors will be included in the final determination 
regarding PDL recommended status. The Committee may also establish recommendations on the 
appropriate utilization protocols for individual medications or for therapeutic categories. These 
protocols may include, but are not limited to prior authorization, automated prior authorization and 
guidelines, quantity limits and other utilization management tools.  
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPage 2 of 4 
 
Article III - MEMBERSHIP 
Section I - Appointment 
The P&T Committee will consist of a minimum of eight and not more than fifteen voting members and 
the Chairperson who will be a non-voting member, except in the event of a tie vote. The voting and 
non-voting members will include practicing pharmacists and physicians, faculty members of the 
University of Rhode Island College of Pharmacy and consumers or consumer representatives  
When the P&T Committee addresses certain therapies or drug classes, other ad hoc medical specialists 
or consultants may be invited to provide subject matter expertise.  Ad hoc medical specialists are not 
voting members of the Committee.   
All professional members shall hold an active license under Rhode Island law in their respective fields. 
The members will be chosen by specialty, board certification, prior P&T experience, state residency, 
experience treating Medicaid Recipients, absence of conflicts of interest, ability to represent a broad 
base of constituents, and number of years in practice. 
Section II - Term 
Each P&T Committee member is appointed by the Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and 
Human Services for a three-year term and may be reappointed to successive three-year terms.  
Appointments shall be staggered.  
Section III - Officers 
The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson will be nominated and elected by the Committee annually. The 
Vice-Chairperson will take the place of the Chairperson upon his or her absence or request or recusal. 
Section IV - Responsibilities 
Each P&T Committee member is expected to attend all Committee meetings, unless otherwise excused 
by the Chairperson. 
P & T Committee members must complete a Disclosure of Interest Form annually and provide updated 
information as necessary.  No member shall meet or discuss with manufacturer representatives any 
drug or drug-related information to be presented at P&T deliberations.  If any member has had prior 
discussions with a manufacturer’s representative related to a company’s product, the member shall 
recuse him/herself from deliberating or voting on that manufacturer’s product. 
Section V - Termination and Resignation 
The Secretary may dismiss a P&T Committee member for cause. Termination may result due to non-
disclosure of a conflict of interest, participating in wrongdoing, misconduct or non-excused attendance 
while a member of the Committee. 
A P&T Committee member may resign by submitting a written notice to the Chairperson. The 
Chairperson may resign by submitting a written notice to the Secretary. 
Article IV - MEETINGS 
Section I - Frequency 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nPage 3 of 4 
 
The P&T Committee will meet four (4) times a year. Additional meetings may be called by the 
Chairperson or Committee at any time. 
Section II - Procedure 
Quarterly P&T Committee meetings will be subject to the provisions of the Open Meetings Law, RIGL 
42-46-1 et al. 
Registration shall occur on the day of the meeting.  At the entrance to the meeting room a sign-in 
sheet will be provided and any representatives from the public are invited to attend. Seating is not 
reserved and will be on an as-available basis. 
The Department shall post on the RI Secretary of State and EOHHS Web site the final agenda at least 
48 hours prior to the meeting.  In the case of a supplemental meeting, the agenda will be posted at 
least 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
Public and written testimony shall be considered part of the public record and made available upon 
request. 
The minutes from each meeting will be posted for public view in accordance with the Open Meeting 
Laws.  Minutes will include vote totals. 
Article V - QUORUM 
The presence of 51 percent or more of P&T Committee members will be considered a quorum.  The 
quorum must be maintained throughout the meeting.  A simple majority will determine the P&T 
Committee’s recommendation, and any ties will be broken by the Chairperson.  
Article VI - PUBLIC PARTICIPATION 
Section I - Public Testimony Registration 
1. Registration will occur the day of the meeting 
2. It will be on a first-come, first-serve basis on the day of the meeting.  The speaker must be 
present to register.  
3. The registered speaker must identify the drug or topic that will be the subject of their testimony 
as part of the registration. 
4. Public testimony is limited to the agenda items. 
5. Registrants who prefer to provide testimony in writing only may do so and will be instructed to 
bring hard copies of the written testimony (specifications in the next section) to the meeting for 
distribution to all P&T Committee members.  
6. Once the meeting has started, registration will be closed to additional speakers. 
Section II - Public Testimony Guidelines 
1. Each company, pharmaceutical manufacturer, organization or group will have one (1) 
opportunity to speak.  
2. Each testimony will be a maximum of four (4) minutes long. Multiple speakers representing a 
company, pharmaceutical manufacturer or organization will be permitted; however the total 
time shall not exceed four (4) minutes.  
3. Each speaker must share their name, title, organization, city of business and disclose if a drug 
manufacturer requested them to appear and testify and state whether in a paid or unpaid 
capacity, or if the speaker was in any way funded, including but not limited to direct 
compensation, consultation fees, personal or work related grant recipient to provide testimony.  
Written testimony must also include this information.  
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nPage 4 of 4 
 
4. Materials will be restricted to one (1), 8 ½ X 11 inch, single-sided page of bulleted information, 
New times roman font size 12 and double spaced Materials which do not comply to this format 
or testimony to drugs not on the agenda,  will not be distributed to the committee.  
5. No audiovisual equipment can be used.  
6. Only committee members may ask questions of speakers. 
7. No clinical submissions by manufacturers, companies, or organizations such as, but not limited 
to, package inserts, will be accepted in advance of the meeting for inclusion in the P&T 
Committee members’ information packets or distributed during the meeting. 
 Section IV - Public Resources 
The EOHHS Web site will exhibit information for public view. The pharmacy section of the EOHHS 
website will include the following P&T related items: P&T Committee member list, the meeting 
agendas and minutes, P&T bylaws and the working PDL.  
Article VII - DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST 
Members of the Committee will be required to submit Disclosure of Interest Forms and will have an 
ongoing duty to disclose any interests that develop after completion of the form. 
If a member has an interest that may affect or be perceived to affect the member’s independence of 
judgment, the member must recuse himself/herself from the voting process for the drug class 
concerned. This recusal includes but is not limited to refraining from deliberation or debate, making 
recommendations, volunteering advice and/or participating in the decision-making process in any way. 
The Chairperson will review the criteria that P & T members should use to determine whether to 
recuse themselves from the voting process at the beginning of each meeting and ask whether any 
members need to recuse themselves from consideration of a particular drug or class of drugs. 
Article VIII - AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS 
Recommendation of amendment(s) to the by-laws may be made at any meeting of the Committee by 
a vote of simple majority of the members present after establishment of a quorum has been 
established, provided that written notice of the proposed amendment(s) is made available to EOHHS 
and the members at least 10 (ten) business days prior to the meeting.  These recommendations will 
then be submitted to EOHHS for final approval.\n