STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_apr_17.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, April 4, 2017 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD 
 
  
 
P & T Members Absent:   Greg Allen, MD 
Kristina Ward, PharmD    
 
 
Others Present:  
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Conduent) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh, MBA (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
  
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:10 am.   
The December 2016 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Cathy Mullooly, Novo Nordisk. Victoza, Tresiba, Norditropin 
2. Mehak Talwar & Brian, Korenda, Boehringer Ingelheim. Jardiance 
3. Tom Algozzine, Novartis. Gilyena 
4. Jeff Olson, Gilead. Epclusa 
5. Brian Calamari, Abbvie. Zinbryta 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
a. Acne Agents.  A motion was made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented.  
b. Analgesics, Narcotics Short. Motion made, and discussion on the motion. Concern about 
combination products/single ingredients. Recommendations include a single ingredient item. 
Request that PDL include footnote regarding legislation limiting quantities when prescribing 
opioids for acute pain.  A motion was made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented.  
c. 
Analgesics, Narcotics Long. Motion made, and discussion on the motion. Request that the website 
include an annotation that these agents are not for acute therapy and all are on prior 
authorization. A motion was made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented.  
d. Antiemetics. Motion made, and discussion on the motion. Do other states have a duration 
limitation? Yes, some states have limits; including for antiemetic chemotherapy.  A motion was 
made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as presented.  
e. Antihyperuricemics.  A motion was made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented.  
i. Antiviral Agents Oral.HSV Agents. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept 
the recommendations as presented.  
ii. Influenza Agents. A motion made and discussion on the motion. Motion made to remove 
rimantidine and accept the rest of the recommendations.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
 
 
iii. Hepatitis C Agents. A motion made and discussion on the motion. Question; do the 
MCO’s follow the FFS policy? Yes. Process in place to insure continuity of therapy for 
patients who transition between programs. A motion made and unanimously approved 
to accept the recommendations as presented. 
f. 
Antivirals, topical. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented. 
g. 
Bone Resorption Inhibitors. A motion made and discussion on the motion. Request the inclusion 
of a raloxifene product on the PDL.  A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented with the inclusion of a raloxifene product.  
h. Growth Hormones. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented. 
i. 
Hypoglycemics. Guideline updates;  ADA, AACE/ACE, ACP  
i. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
ii. Incretin mimetics/enhancers. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented.  
iii. Insulins. A motion made and discussion on the motion. Discussion on the substitutability 
of biologics products. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented.  
iv. Meglitinides. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations 
as presented.   
v. Metformins. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations 
as presented. 
vi. SGLT-2. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented.  
vii. Sulfonylureas. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
viii. Thiazolodinediones.  A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
j. 
Immunomodulators, atopic dermatitis. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
k. 
Immunomodulators, topical. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented.  
l. 
Multiple Sclerosis Agents. Motion and discussion on the motion. A motion made and unanimously 
approved to accept the recommendations as presented. 
m. Pancreatic Enzymes. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations 
as presented. 
n. H. Pylori Agents. A motion made and discussion on the motion. DUR committees across states 
look at utilization for appropriate prescribing. Find that states pay for individual agents not the 
combined products. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations 
as presented  
o. Proton Pump Inhibitors. A motion made and discussion on the motion. Have other State DUR 
boards looked at the duration of therapy? Request that the DUR board look at duration of 
therapy. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as presented 
p. Psoriasis – Topical Agents. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
q. Topical Steroids. A motion made and unanimously approved to accept the recommendations as 
presented. 
Meeting Adjourned – 9:40am.  
2017 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
June 13th 
September 12th 
December 12th\n