STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_sept_18.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, September 11, 2018 
 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, September 11, 2018 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Rick Wagner, MD 
 
Absent: 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
  
 
 
Others Present: 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology)  
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Conduent) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration) 
 
 
 
Chris Ottiano, MD( NHP)  
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:08am.   
 
Public Service Announcement by Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA). CMS notified 
manufacturers regarding renewal of the federal rebate agreements, which need to be signed by end of 
the month.  Further CMS asked MMA to communicate this information to their manufacturer contacts.  
Lack of signature will impact rebates to States, both the federal and supplemental rebates. Asking the 
pharmaceutical representatives in attendance today to share this information with their internal 
contacts.  
 
The June 5th, 2018 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Vadim Ichaychuk, BMS, Orcenia.  
2. Tysen Thompson, Embeda & Quillivant EP & XR.  
3. Jonathan Hertz, Aerie, Rhopressa. 
4. Tom Algozzine, Pfizer. Cosentyx. 
5. William Seidel, Dynavel XR.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for the quarterly review:    
 
1. Alzheimer’s Agents. Namenda oral solution discontinued. Recommend no changes to the PDL. 
Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
2. Analgesics, Narcotic Long Acting. FDA safety communication regarding the use of codeine and 
tramadol in children.  ICER report on abuse deterrent formulations of opioids. AAOMS white 
paper on treatment of acute and post-op pain; recommending use of NSAIDS and non-opioid 
treatments.  New product Arymo ER (MS ER). New generic for Butrans. Market withdrawal of 
Opana ER. No changes to the recommended products. Question; do other states have this as 
preferred and do they have same utilization rates? Motion was made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved. 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, September 11, 2018 
 
 
 
 
3. Analgesics, Narcotic Short Acting. New prod RoxyBand (oxycodone IR). Motion was made to 
accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
4. Androgenic Agents. Discontinue Axiron and its generics. Question: Is there a diagnosis 
requirement on the PA; not currently. Referred for review by DUR.  Motion was made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
5. Antiparkinson’s Agents. New items Gocovri (amantatine ER) and Osmolex ER (amantadine ER). 
Question: is there a reason for non-inclusion of the anticholinergics in this category? The 
category has changed over time based on the indications of amanatadine not being used as an 
antiviral. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
6. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Agents. No changes to the class. Motion was made to accept 
the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
7. Bladder Relaxants. Updated indication for Myrbetriq. Changes to the recommendations: remove 
Enablex. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
8. Cytokine and Calmodulin (CaM) Antagonists. Updated indications for: Stelara, Taltz, Xeljanz and 
XR, Cimzia.  New formulations: Cyltezo, Enbrel Mini and Kevzara. Two new Products: Ilumya 
(tildrakizumab-asmn)and Olumiant (baricitnib). Biosimilars should be considered safe and 
effective; substitutions should be made by the prescriber. No changes to the recommendations. 
Question: regarding superiority based on phase IV studies? Opinion a 16 week study would not 
be considered superiority study. Motion to accept the recommendations with the addition of 
Cosentyx. Motion: 2:3 in favor of motion with addition. Original motion passes: 3:2.  
9. Erythropoietins. New information Biosimilar Retatrit (biosimilar for Epogen and Procrit.  Mircera 
now approved for dialysis. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; approved with one 
abstention. 
10. Ophthalmic Agents. 
a. Allergic Conjunctivitis. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved. 
b. Antibiotics. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
c. Antibiotic-steroid combinations. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; 
unanimously approved. 
d. Anti-inflammatory. Recommendation includes elimination of prednisolone acetate. 
Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
e. Anti-inflammatory, Immunomodulators. Motion was made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved. 
f. Glaucoma. Updated indication for Timoptic XE. New Prods Rhopressa (netarsudil 
mesylate) and Vyzulta (latanoprotene bunod). If there could be phase IV studies, then 
could be advantageous. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously 
approved. 
11. Otic Agents. 
a. Antibiotics. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
b. Anti-infectives and anesthetics. New category review for the committee. Low utilization 
at this point in time. Recommend acetic acid as the preferred product. Motion was made 
to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
c. Anti-inflammatory. New category for the committee. Recommend Dermotic. Motion was 
made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
12. Phosphate Binders. New generic lanthanum carbonate chewable for fosrenol; new drug Axorerol. 
Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
13. Stimulants & Related Agents. New formulations of Adzenys ER oral suspension.  Product 
discontinuation Mehthylin chewable tablets. Recommendations include addition of Vyvnase 
chewable tablets and discontinuation of dextroamphetamine ER capsules.  Comments; cCan the 
prior authorization be modified to ask if the patient has been on the medication? And from 
when? WHO has said that USA is an outlier in use of stimulants. Maintenance of chronic use and 
continuity of care. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
14. Antihypertensives, Sympatholytics. Motion was made to accept the recommendations; 
unanimously approved. 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, September 11, 2018 
 
 
 
 
DUR – Follow up items: 
1. DUR look at patient who need androgel and need dx based criteria.  
2. Look at the use of stimulants in adults.  
 
2018 Meeting Schedule: 
December 11th  
 
2019 Meeting Schedule: 
April 9th 
June 4th 
September 10th  
December 17th  
 
Adjournment: 
The meeting adjourned at 9:40 AM\n