STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_sept_19.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nThe Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, September 9, 2019 
8:00 AM 
DXC Technology 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: 
Greg Allen, MD  
Todd Brothers, PharmD 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Rick Wagner, MD 
 
Tracey Taviera, PharmD   
 
Absent:  
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology) 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (EOHHS) 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
  
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:08 am.   
 
The June 4th, 2019 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and topic:  
1. 
Samaneh Kalirai, BMS. Orencia.   
2. 
Sarah Hnath, Abbvie, Skyrizi.  
3. 
Elizabeth Lubelczyk, Lilly.  Taltz.   
4. 
Tom Algozzine, Novartis. Cosentyx. 
5. 
  
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion from the 
pharmacy and therapeutics committee.    
1. 
Alzheimer Agents. No new relevant clinical information. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; 
unanimously approved.  
2. 
Analgesics, Narcotic Long Acting.  FDA safety communications on rapid discontinuation. CDC clarified 2016 guidelines 
when prescribing for chronic pain. Discussion: this topic routinely discussed by DUR. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
3. 
Analgesics, Short Acting. New product, Dsuvia, to be used in a healthcare setting, maximum of 72 hours.  New 
formulations Apadaz new strengths 4.08/325 and 8.16/325.  Recommend add the Tramadol/APAP formulations. Why 
recommendations the combination product. It was on in the past, then off based on cost, but now again cost effective. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved.   
4. 
Androgenic Agents.  Do we have any edits on the use of the androgenic agents?  Informational edit at POS to the 
pharmacies. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
5. 
Antiparkinson’s Agents. New products, Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder). Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
6. 
Benign Prostatic Hypertension Agents. No changes to the class. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented; unanimously approved. 
7. 
Bladder relaxants. Nothing new; no changes to the PDL. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; 
unanimously approved. 
8. 
Cytokine and Calmodulin Antagonists. New information Skyrizi; updated indications: Actemra, Cimzia, Inflectra, 
Renflexis, Otezla.  New formulations: Actemra 162mg/0.9ml as ACTPen. Tremfya single dose prefilled auto-injector. 
Guideline & safety updates: FDA – Xeljanz and the XR, ACR/ NPF and AAD/NPF. Request review of this group of 
medications at the April 2020 meeting. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously 
approved. 
9. 
Erythropoietins. ASCO and ASH updated their 2010 recommendations for the use of ESAs in patients with cancer. 
Recommended change in the category to Retacrit (biosimilar). Consistent with the philosophy of the PDL, patients 
established on Procrit will be grandfathered if they have used Procrit in the past year. Recommending Retacrit for the 
new starts. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
10. Ophthalmic Agents. 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\na. 
Allergic Conjunctivitis.  Two products being discontinued. No changes. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
b. 
Antibiotics. No changes. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved.  
c. 
Antibiotics-Steroid Combinations. No changes. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; 
unanimously approved. 
d. 
Anti-inflammatory. New formulations Inveltys (loteprednol etabonate) and Dextenza (dexamethasone insert), 
will not expect to see the insert dispensed/billed at the point of service (retail) pharmacy.  No changes. Motion 
made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
e. 
Anti-inflammatory, Immunomodulators. New formulation Cequa (cyclosporine ophthalmic solution).  Motion 
made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
f. 
Glaucoma. New formulations Xelpros (latanoprost) and Rocklatan (netarsudil and latanprost). Glad to see 
category expanding. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved.  
11. Otic Agents 
a. 
Antibiotics. No changes. Discussion/question: the cost of the ciprofloxacin ophthalmic compared to otic 
product?  Are these really the same product? Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; 
unanimously approved. 
b. 
Anti-infectives and Anesthetics. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously 
approved. 
c. 
Anti-inflammatory. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
12. Phosphate Binders. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
13. Stimulants and Related Agents. New generics, Evekeo.  New formulations: Jornay PM (methylphenidate), Evekeo ODT 
and Adhansia XR.  New prodcuts. Sunosi (solriamfetol). Discussion; has DUR evaluated total daily dose and total number 
of tablets? And develop guidelines, quantity limits?  What percent are done by desk review compared to the point of 
service automated prior authorization? Comment; ACAP question regarding a uniform formulary/PDL across all of 
Medicaid. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; unanimously approved. 
14. Antihypertensive, Sympatholytics. No changes. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented; 
unanimously approved. 
 
2019 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
December 17th  
 
2020 Proposed Schedule  
April 7th 
June 9th 
September 15th 
December 15th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:40 AM\n