STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_18.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, December 12, 2018 
 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 12th, 2018 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  
Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Rick Wagner, MD 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
Absent:  
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD   
 
 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology)  
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
  
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:05 am.   
 
The September 12th, 2018 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. 
Melinda Given,United Therapeutics. Pulmonary HTN; Orienitram.  
2. 
Mark Golick, RPh, Pfizer. Lyrica.  
3. 
Shaffee Bacchus, Janssen. Xarelto. 
4. 
Sunitha Rangaraju, UCB. Vimpat.  
5. 
Daisy Dai, Pierre Fabre, Hemangeol.  
6. 
Karen Phillips, Amgen. Repatha.  
7. 
Tom Algozzine, Novartis. Entresto.  
8. 
Bruce Sill, BMS. Eliquis.  
 
Election of Committee and Officers. Motion made to recommend Dave Feeney and Rita Marcoux as chairs for 2019. Motion made 
and committee officers accepted as presented.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion from the 
pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
 
1. Antianginal Modulators & Combinations. Consideration regarding recalls given; valsartan. Yes, recalls/market 
availability considered. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented.  
2. Antianginal & anti-ischemics. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
3. Anticoagulants. Recommend switch from Lovenox to enoxaparin.  Commentary regarding complexity of 
studies regarding items in this category.  Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
4. Anticonvulsants.  Flip the Dilantin chewables to phenytoin chewable. New product Epiodiolex; new to 
federal rebate program. Indications for Lennox Gaustant syndropme; add on therapy. Questions regarding 
other states coverage of this new product; each state treats new to market items differently. RI has PA 
process in place for new to market items.  Concerns regarding long term use of this drug; request that DUR 
follow up on each of these patients and report to the DUR committee.  Have there been any denials for 
antiepileptic medications in the past year? No.   Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
5. Antidepressants, other. Discussion to add fluvoxamine oral (non-extended release) without a fail first. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations adding fluvoxamine oral (non-extend release) without a fail 
first. The motion passes 6:1.  
6. Antidepressants, SSRIs. Recommendation includes the addition of citalopram solution. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations as presented. 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, December 12, 2018 
 
 
 
 
7. Beta Blockers. New formulation of extended release metoprolol. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
8. Bile Salts. Nothing new in the class. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
9. Calcium Channel Blockers. Nothing new in the class. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. 
10. Lipotropics, Other. Updated indication for Repatha. PCSK9 available with PA. Bile Salts. Discussion to remove 
the niacin products. Motion made to accept the recommendations with the removal of the niacin products. 
Including, nioacin/ER OTC, Niaspan, and Slo-niacin.   
11. Lipotropics, Statins. No new information. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
12. Neuropathic Pain. Lyrica has an updated indication to patients down to 4 years. Diverse group of products in 
this group. Addition of gabapentin tablets. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
13. NSAIDS. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
14. PAH Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
15. Platelet Inhibitors. Npo recent changes to clinical information. Recommendations now include prasugrel and 
removal of ticlopidine (with no utilization).  
16. Progestins for Cachexia. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
17. Rosecea Agents.  Compliance not good; lots of wrap of claims in this category. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. 
 
 
2019 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 9h  
June 4th  
September 10th  
December 17th  
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:40 AM\n