STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_sept11.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
  
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday September 6th, 2011 
        8:00 AM 
                                                                               Hilton Garden Inn 
                                                                                 Jefferson Blvd 
Warwick, Rhode Island 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  Greg Allen, MD 
 
 
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh. Chairperson 
 
 
 
L. McIntyiere Johnston, MD 
 
 
 
Richard Wagner, MD 
Matthew Salisbury, MD 
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
 
P & T Members Absent: Chaz Gross 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ralph Racca (RI Medical Assistance Program)  
 
 
 
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Ray Maxim, MD (RI Medical Assistance, Medical Director) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance at 8:34 am.  
Under Old Business Januvia was discussed and a vote taken to add it to the PDL.  The June 2011 
meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following presentations: Marilyn Bartucci from Astellis for Protopic, Linda 
Posta from Astellis for Vesicare, Brian Montague from the Immunology Center at Miriam Hospital 
regarding the new hepatitis C agents, Dean Najarian from Janssen but speaking for himself & NAMI, 
Arsalan Khan, Janssen speaker for Procrit, Stelara & Simponi,  Colleen Moffit from Pfizer for  Geodon & 
Toviaz, Rhonda Levin & Brett Downing from Merck for Victrelis &  Saphris, Judy Kando from Sunovion 
for Latuda and Vic Patel from Vertex for Incivek.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews: 
NSAIDS, Oral Antivirals, Atopic Dermatologic Immunomodulators, Bladder Relaxants, BPH treatments, , 
Cytokine & CAM Antagonists, Erythropoiesis Stimulating Protein, Hepatitis C agents, Ophthalmic agents 
(antibiotics, glaucoma and allergic conjunctivitis), Otic Antibiotics, Phosphate Binders, Topical 
Antivirals, Androgenic agents and Atypical Antipsychotics.  
 
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPresentation -  therapeutic class reviews 
 
Atypical Antipsychotics. There are labeling changes with Abilify, Invega, Saphris and Seroquel XR. New 
drug in the category is Latuda. Compliance in the category is 68%. Motion made to open the class 
without restriction motion passes & discussion on the motion. Increasing choice does not increase 
efficacy; patients are not willing to take the medication over time; prior authorization (PA)  is available 
for exceptions, currently we look back 90 days for a preferred drug for a non preferred agent to be 
approved at point of service in the pharmacy; Vote to open the class and make all agents preferred; 
there were  2 yes’s  and 6 no’s. Motion made to modify the automated PA to expand from a 90 day  
look back from the date of service on the claim to a 180 day look back; the motion passes unanimously. 
Vote on the recommendations; motion made to accept the recommendations with change in historical 
claims review; the motion passes with 6 yes’s and 2 no’s.  
 
Hepatitis C agents. There are new agents on the market for chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection. 
Protease inhibitors are not indicated for mono-therapy. Current concern about resistance and if failure 
on one can you try the other; there is limited information currently available. Both of these agents 
require triple therapy. The pharmaceutical management of this therapy is complicated. Also note many 
of these patients are co-infected with HIV. Questions: do we want to make sure these patients are Type 
I? Should approval be for a specific period of time? Vote on recommendations which include Victrelis; 
motion made to accept the recommendations & to amend them to include Incivik and bring it to the 
attention of the Drug Utilization Review (DUR) committee; the motion passes unanimously.  
 
NSAIDS.  Review of new medication Sprix. Class compliance is at 99%. Vote on recommendation & 
discussion on the motion; recommendation is to include only meloxicam in this group; question are the 
older NSAIDs available? Yes. Discussion of recommended guidelines for requests associated with a non-
preferred agent; 365 days for history review for a GI bleed or to look for current therapy with 
anticoagulants. Current therapy defined as within the past 30 days from date of service on the claim. 
Question should DUR send a letter to the 61 patient’s prescribers?  Also, look to see if the patients had 
been on meloxicam.  Vote on recommendation; the motion passes unanimously. 
 
Oral  Antivirals Agents. Vote on recommendations; there were 6 yes’s and 1 no.  
 
Atopic  Dermatologic Immunomodulators. Vote on recommendation; the motion passes unanimously.  
 
Bladder Relaxants. New information regarding angioedema.  Vote on recommendations & discussion on 
the motion; expecting a market shift to occur toward Toviaz. Both Detrol & Toviaz are metabolized to 
the same active metabolite. Request the DUR board send a letter to the prescribers.  Voting result: 
there were 6 yes’s and 1 abstention.  
 
BPH. Vote on recommendation; the motion passes unanimously. 
 
Cytokin & CAM Antagonists. Humira has had labeling changes. Current compliance at 75%. Vote on 
recommendation; the motion passes unanimously. 
 
Erythropoiesis Stimulating Protein.  New information from FDA - REMS program, dosing for chronic 
kidney disease patients.  Vote on recommendations & discussion on the motion; question do we have 
protocol in place? Should be reviewed by DUR, Aransep & Procrit are the two PDL agents; close 
monitoring is required.  
Vote on recommendations with the DUR protocol development; the motion passes unanimously. 
 
Ophthalmic  Agents.  New agent Moxeza. Current compliance at 98%. Vote on recommendation; the 
motion passes unanimously. 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nAllgeric Conjunctivitis. New agent Lastacaft. Current compliance is at 100%. Vote on recommendation; 
the motion passes unanimously. 
 
Glaucoma agents. New generic for Xalatan. Vote on recommendations: motion passes unanimously. 
 
Otic Antibiotics. No new medications. 94% compliance. Vote on recommendation; the motion passes 
unanimously. 
 
Phosphate Binders. New information on Fosrenol. New medication is Phoslyra. Current compliance is 
53%. Vote on recommendations; motion passes unanimously. Request the DUR board to send a letter 
to the prescribers of the non preferred agents.  
 
Topical Antivirals. New product. Xerese. Current compliance is 82%. Vote on recommendations; letter 
to the prescriber of the non PDL items a letter indicating what the preferred drugs are. Vote on 
recommendations; motion passes unanimously. 
 
Androgenic agents. New product. Question raised if we check for the gender appropriate therapy; yes.  
Vote on recommendations; motion passes unanimously.  
 
The date identified for the next meeting was Tuesday, December 6th, 2011 beginning at 8:00 AM.  
Identification of 2012 meeting dates for next meeting. The meeting adjourned at 10:50 am.\n