STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun_14.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, June 3, 2014               
 8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Greg Allen, MD 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Cathy Cordy, RPh (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Joe Paradis, RPh (HID) 
 
 
 
Jen Sternick, JD (EOHHS)  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:15am.   
 
The April 2014 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and presentation topics:  
 
1. Bruce Gaulin – Otsuka, Abilify Maintenna 
2. Alissa Amara – Teva, QNASL 
3. Arsalan Khan -  Johnson & Johnson, Invega Sustanna 
4. Judy Cando – Sunovion, lurisidone 
5. Jeremiah Rainville – NAMI 
6. Matt Goodwin – Salix Pharmaceuticals, Xifaxan and Uceris  
7. Tom Algozzine – Novartis, Inhaled Tobramycin in CF and Fanapt 
8. Ray Lancaster – Gilead, CF Cayston  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
1. Respiratory 
a. Antibiotics Inhaled – Recommend add Bethkis to the PDL. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.    
b. Antihistamines Minimally Sedating – No changes recommended. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously. Intranasal Rhinitis – Recommend add Patanase. 
Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.      
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
2
c. Bronchodilators 
i. COPD - New medication Anoro Ellipta (umeclidium/vilanterol).  Pregnancy category 
“C”.   Motion to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously. 
ii. Beta Agonists – Nothing new; no changes to category Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously. Deviation from PDL due to claims paying as 
TPL.   
d. Glucocorticoids 
i. Inhaled – new products Breo Ellipta (fluticasone/vilanterol); pregnancy category C. 
Aerospan (flunisolide) product and a built in spacer. No changes to category. Motion 
to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously. Oral – No new products; 
Change to remove brand Cortef and use generic. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously. 
2. Leukotriene Modifiers – No new products; FDA panel recommendation Singulair will not become OTC. 
Question panel recommendation predicated on what.  Motion to accept the recommendations– 
passes unanimously. Epinephrine, Self-injected – change to leave only EpiPen. Suggested to put 
quantity limits; survey states to see what is out there for limits. Refer to DUR. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.  
3. CNS Agents   
a. Atypical Antipsychotics – Latuda has new indication monotherapy; Versacloz, tx; adasuve – 
oral inhalation administered by a physician. Change to add Latuda.  Abilify on PDL in other 
plans? Yes, Magellan reports that utilization is 6-8% higher in those state where Abilify is in 
preferred status of PDL. Are there any restrictions on dose forms? Yes.  Recommend removal 
of PA on Latuda. Motion to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously.  
b. Narcotic Analgesics, LA – Avinza is now generic. New product Zohydro ER. FDA has expanded 
boxed warning for opioid containing products to include info about prolonged use during 
pregnancy and potential for neonatal dependency. Rolled into this category methadone. 
Change to add methadone tablets into this category.  Discussion: oxycontin and fentanyl 
utilization seems high; this has been reviewed in the past and is TPL related. Do we require 
review PMP as part of requesting a PA if a non PDL LA NA?  Could be an attestation on the PA 
form. Motion to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously.   
c. Narcotic Analgesics, SA – new Xartemis XR (oxy/apap). Recommend no change. Motion to 
accept the recommendations– passes unanimously.   
d. Migraine Agents – recommend add rizatriptan tabs and ODT, and remove Maxalt MLT. 
Motion to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously. 
e. Sedative Hypnotics – new generics for Doral and Lunesta; Hetlioz (tasmelteon) for treatment 
non-24 hour sleep disorder.  Changes none. Discussion; Any movement in other states to 
change?  Refer to DUR for review of lower doses for women and men. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.  
f. 
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants – no new information but changes to eliminate orphenadrine and 
tizanidine as non-preferred. Concerns about grandfathering? Other states that have made a 
change have not grandfathered. Motion to accept the recommendations– passes 
unanimously.  
4. Anti-Infective Agents 
a. Antibiotics 
i. GI – No new information. Discussion; Xifaxan use due to PA approval or TPL claims.  
Motion to accept the recommendations– passes unanimously. 
ii. Topical – No new information. Motion to accept the recommendations– passes 
unanimously.  
iii. Vaginal – New information Clindesse in back in pharmacies after a 2 year absence. 
Recommend maintain Cleocin Ovules and Metrogel as preferred (brand over 
generic). Discussion DUR to send a letter for brand over generic utilization. Motion to 
accept the recommendations– passes unanimously.   
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
 
3
iv. Cephalosporins – Recommend Suprax suspension remain on PDL and tabs 
discontinued, so remove from PDL. Cedax now available as generic. Motion to accept 
the recommendations– passes unanimously. 
v. Quinolones, Oral – Avelox now available as generic. No changes. Motion to accept 
the recommendations– passes unanimously. 
vi. Macrolides/Ketolides – no new information and no changes. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.  
vii. Tetracyclines – no new information and no changes. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.  
b. Antifungal Agents 
i. Oral – Vfend suspension is now available as generic. FDA safety updates for 
ketoconazole. Noxafil now available as tablet. New products Ecoza and Luzu. 
Recommend ketoconazole move to non-preferred. Motion to accept the 
recommendations– passes unanimously.     
ii. Topical – No changes to the category. Motion to accept the recommendations– 
passes unanimously.    
5. Ulcerative Colitis Agents – Delzicol new indication. Seeing shift from Asacol to other products in the 
market. Add Delzicol and remove Pentasa. Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – 
passes unanimously.    
  
Upcoming Meetings  
Scheduled meeting dates for 2014 include: August 26th and December 3 rd. As always, the meetings will begin at 
8:00 AM.   
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:05 AM.\n