STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_14.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 2, 2014               
 8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD  
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross, NAMI 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Cathy Cordy, RPh (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:05am.   
 
The June 2014 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were unanimously accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
 
1. Marjory Lewey, UCB.  
2. Neil Marotta, Pfizer  
3. Ray Mastrianni, Acetilon 
4. Shalini Hede, BMS 
5. Tom Sepe, MD,  University GI 
6. Andrew Revel, Genzyme 
7. William Murphy, Epilepsy Foundation NE 
8. Jeff Olson, Gilead 
9. Sarah Guadayw, Aegerion  
10. Arlene Price, Janssen  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee.  
 
1. Alzheimer’s Agents – Namenda IR®, will be retired. No discussion.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
2. Androgenic agents.  Discussion/question; why is there noncompliance to the PDL? Noncompliance reflects 
that a prior authorization was approved (criteria had been met) or the majority of the claim was paid by a 
primary payer, and Medicaid paid as secondary.  No further discussion. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
3. Antiparkinson’s agents – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
4. Antivirals. Updated information. Sitavig® has new indication. Valcyclovir has more competitive pricing, 
recommend PDL cover generic rather than brand. No discussion. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
5. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Agents. No new clinical information. No discussion. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously. 
6. Bladder Relaxants. Updated product information; Oxytrol for Women® available as OTC; new generic for 
Detrol LA®. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Discussion on the motion; if 
Sanctura® becomes nonpreferred then allow current patients to remain on product. Motion made to 
accept recommendations as presented with one change, to “grandfather” patients currently on Sanctura®.   
Motion passes unanimously. 
7. Cytokins and Calmodulin (CaM) Antagonists.  New products, Otezla® and Entyvio®. New formulations 
Simponi Aria®and Actemra SQ®; new indications for Stelara®, Cimzia® and Simponi®; new warning for 
Xeljanz®. Suggestion; DUR look at psoriatic arthritis and lithium. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. Passes with one abstention (G. Allen).  
8. Erythropoetins.  No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
9. Immunomodulators, Atopic Dermatitis. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. Passes unanimously.  
10. Ophthalmic Agents 
a. Antibiotics – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
b. Allergic Conjunctivitis. Adding Patanol® back as preferred. – No further discussion. Motion made 
to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously. 
c. Glaucoma. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
d. Anti-inflammatory.  No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
Passes unanimously.  
11. Otic Antibiotics. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
12. Phosphate Binders new velphoro ®. No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. Passes unanimously.  
13. Stimulants and related agents. Discussion regarding use of non stimulants like guanfacine or clonidine 
before using a stimulant; concern regarding diversion of stimulants in USA. Stimulants used by 7% of 
school age children. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes with one 
opposition (R. Wagner).   
14. Angiotensin modulators & combo– No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. Passes unanimously.  
15. Antianginal & ischemic. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. 
Passes unanimously.  
16. Antiobiotics inhaled. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
17. Anticoagulants. Warfarin recommended in non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Commentary commercial market 
seeing reduction of use of warfarin. No further discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. Passes unanimously.  
18. Anticonvulsants. New products, Aptiom® and Qudexy XR®. Topamax® has new indication migraine 
prophylaxis. Recommendation includes Tripleptal® suspension as preferred agent.  Commentary; P & T 
committee cannot control switch from one generic to another generic; P & T committee cannot control non 
seizure use of these agents. No further discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as 
presented. Passes unanimously.  
19. Antidepressants, other.  Question; if duloxetine was included in this category what would be the impact? 
Regardless of which category, antidepressants or neuropathic pain, the drug was found, the 
recommendation would be continue to be a non-preferred agent.  Request that this agent be listed as 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
3
non-preferred in both places of the PDL. Add step edit, that duloxetine requires a failure of a preferred 
antidepressant, prior to approving duloxetine.  No further discussion. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented with the change to require failure of preferred antidepressants prior to 
approving duloxetine for depression.  Passes unanimously.  
20. Antidepressants, SSRI. No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
21. Antihypertensives, sympatholytics. Guanfacine and clonidine oral are reviewed in this therapeutic 
category. In the future can these agents please be reviewed with the stimulants? No further discussion. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
22. Beta blockers. Remark regarding surprise at the amount of propranolol being prescribed/utilized. Motion 
made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
23. CCBs. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
24. Lipotropics, other. – No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes 
unanimously.  
25. Lipotropics, statins. Discussion of the criteria to get Crestor®; what should the step edit be? Change 
requirement from failure of simvastatin to failure of atorvastatin before use of Crestor® (non preferred). 
No further discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations with a change from simvastatin to 
atorvastatin as step edit. Passes unanimously.  
26. Neuropathic pain. Question why are gabapentin tabs non-preferred? Capsule of same drug are less costly. . 
Use of non preferred agent is often result of Medicaid paying claim as secondary.  No further discussion. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
27. NSAIDS, new generic Pennsaid® and Vimovo®.   No discussion. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
28. PAH agents, new formulation Orenitram ER® and Revatio® available as a suspension. – No discussion. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations as presented. Passes unanimously.  
29. Platelet inhibitors. New product Zontivity®.  No discussion. Motion made to accept the recommendations 
as presented. Passes unanimously.  
30. Hepatitis C Agents. New medications, Olysio®, Sovaldi® and Harvoni®. Update to product information; 
Incivek® has been discontinued. AASLD and IDSA. All drugs have genotype preferences and patients should 
be genotype tested. Discussion; consider making all drugs that treat hepatitis C require a prior 
authorization, including ribavirin and interferon.  Consider this would span several therapeutic drug 
categories.  Review EOHHS current policy regarding the newer agents.  Motion made to table hepatitis c 
discussion and review at the April 2015 meeting. Motions passes unanimously. 
 
2015 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 7th 
June 9th 
August 25th 
December 1st 
   
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:10 AM.\n