STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun_19.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 4th, 2019 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, June 4th, 2019 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present:  
Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Rick Wagner, MD 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
Absent:  
 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
 
Others Present: 
 
Ann Bennett (DXC Technology) 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (EOHHS) 
Karen Mariano, RPh (DXC Technology) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
  
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:10 am.   
 
The April 9th, 2019 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and topic:  
1. 
Charles Feldman, NAMI. Open access to atypical antipsychotics.  
2. 
Melissa Winget, Sunovion. Latuda.  
3. 
Jim Musick, Glaxo Smith Kline. Trelegy Ellipta & Anoro Ellipta.  
4. 
Elizabeth Lubelczyk, Lilly. Emgality.  
5. 
Paul Isikwe, Teva. Ajovy.  
6. 
Karen Phillips, Amgen, Amovig.  
7. 
Patricia Rohman, Otsuka. Abilify Mycite. 
8. 
Zack Spurlin, Abbvie. Mavyret. 
9. 
Jeff Olsen, Gilead. Epclusa.  
10. Tim Birwer, Alkermes. Aristada & Vivitrol.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion from the 
pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
 
1. 
Respiratory 
a. 
Anti-allergens, Oral. Oralair expanded indications. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current 
PDL; it was unanimously approved.   
b. 
Antibiotics, Inhaled. New product Arikayce (amikacin). A recommendation was made for no changes to the 
current PDL; it was unanimously approved.   
c. 
Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no 
changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
d. 
Bronchodilators.  
i. Beta Agonists.  New AGs available. Comment on compliance rate to the PDL; the compliance rate 
reflects secondary payment by FFS and results in a lower compliance.  Question: look to see if other 
items were more “adhered to”? Discussion compliance to long acting would diminish the need for 
patient use of short acting products. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current 
PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
ii. COPD Agents.  New product Yupelri. Regarding Respimats; can all products be “on” the PDL? 
Discussion of the delivery method brought to the attention of the prescriber. A recommendation 
was made for no changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 4th, 2019 
 
 
 
e. 
Epinephrine, Self-injected. Removing obsolete product of epinephrine auto-injector. A recommendation was 
made, including a change to the current PDL for the group; it was unanimously approved. 
f. 
Glucocorticoids. 
i. Inhaled. Arnuity Ellipata has new indication.  Adding Pulmicort Flexhaler as another steroid option. 
Discussion to reduce the number of inhalers based on the following scenarios. Create automated PA 
based on the following scenarios; 
1. 
90 day look back for an ICS.  
2. 
Refer to DUR board for continued discussion.  
A recommendation was made, including a change to the current PDL for the group; it was 
unanimously approved.  
ii. Oral. Suggest moving cortisone to non-preferred as there is no utilization. A recommendation was 
made, including a change to the current PDL for the group; it was unanimously approved. 
g. 
Intranasal Rhinitis Agents. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes 
to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
h. 
Leukotriene Modifiers.  No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes to 
the current PDL; it was unanimously approved.  
2. 
CNS Agents 
a. 
Antimigraine Agents.  There were three speakers on this topic today. New information Calcitonin gene related 
peptide antagonists approved for adults. Aimovig, Ajovy, and Emgality. These are add on therapy. Currently 
these are non-preferred agents.  Recommendation made to add Emgality pen and syringe in this category. 
Discussion of the recommendation. Follow the Headache Society recommendations; including failure of two 
initial therapy items.  AHS says 6 week trial first before trying add on therapy; items to fail are topirimate, 
valproate, SSRI, beta blocker, TCA and CCB.  Committee would like to see two prophylactic agents for 6 weeks 
therapy of each agent, before getting Emgality. Amendment made to the recommendations to add Emgality 
with the PA step therapy. A recommendation was made, including a change to the current PDL for the group; 
it was unanimously approved including the criteria for approval.  Also add to DUR’s list to review. 
b. 
Atypical Antipsychotics. New formulations Nuplazid, Aristada LA inject and Perseris.  Recommend paliperidone 
as non-preferred. Discussion to add all agents to the PDL. Question is it really a cost issue between the oral 
paliperidone and Invega. Discussion; motion made to accept the recommendations with the addition of oral 
paliperidone. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved.  
c. 
Opiate Dependence Treatments. New generics for Suboxone film and Narcan spray.  New product is Lucemyra. 
Continue to monitor the cost effectiveness of the Suboxone film. Question: are any states covering Vivitrol?  
d. 
Sedative-Hypnotics. Updated FDA warning for zolpidem. Discussion on zolpidem and patient gender.  A 
recommendation was made for no changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
e. 
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes 
to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
3. 
Anti-Infective Agents 
a. 
Antibiotics 
i. GI. No new relevant clinical information. Recommend adding Firvanq. A recommendation was made, 
including a change to the current PDL for the group; it was unanimously approved. 
ii. Topical. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes to the 
current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
iii. Vaginal. Nuvessa has expanded age indication. A recommendation was made for no changes to the 
current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
iv. Cephalosporins. Compliance is good. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was 
made for no changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
v. Quinolones, Oral. FDA safety communication for this category. A recommendation was made for no 
changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
vi. Macrolides/Ketolides. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no 
changes to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
vii.       
b. 
Antifungal agents 
i. Oral. New formulation of itraconazole, Tolsura.  New indication for Vfend. No changes to the 
recommendations. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current PDL; it was 
unanimously approved. 
ii. Topical. No new relevant clinical information.  A recommendation was made for no changes to the 
current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
c. 
Antiviral Agents 
i. Oral  
1. 
HSV. No new relevant clinical information.  A recommendation was made for no changes 
to the current PDL; it was unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, June 4th, 2019 
 
 
 
2. 
Influenza. New product is Xofluza. Recommendations to add generic Tamiflu based on 
compliance; provider community not stocking brand, and urgency of treatment. A 
recommendation was made, including a change to the current PDL for the group; it was 
unanimously approved. 
d. 
Hepatitis C. No changes to the recommendations. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current 
PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
e. 
Topical. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes to the current PDL; 
it was unanimously approved. 
f. 
GI Motility agents. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes to the 
current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
g. 
Methotrexate agents. No new relevant clinical information. A recommendation was made for no changes to 
the current PDL; it was unanimously approved. 
h. 
Ulcerative Colitis. Recommend adding Lialda as preferred.  A recommendation was made, including a change 
to the current PDL for the group; it was unanimously approved. 
 
2019 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
September 10th  
December 17th  
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:15 AM\n