STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_Aug13.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, August 27, 2013 
               8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
 
 
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD  
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross, NAMI 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Deidre Gifford, MD, (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Joe Paradis, RPh (HID) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:10am.   
 
Introductions were made around the table. 
 
The June 2013 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and presentation topics:  
1. Ketul Patel – Vertex, Incivek 
2. Neil Marotta – Pfizer, Toviaz, Quivalent & Xeljenz  
3. Linda Posta – Astellas, Myrbetriq 
4. Arlene Price – J & J, Stelara & Simponi 
5. Christiane Arseval –  Merck, Victrelis and PegIntron 
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
1. Alzheimer’s agents – new dosage form of Nameda XR® and updated indication for Excelon® patch. 
Compliant 93.5%. Motion to accept. Discussion on the motion. Is there any look during the review for 
efficacy? More about the progression of the disease. Diagnostic testing is subjective. Concerned about 
lack of progressive studies.  Dr Wagner would like to know how to present the COB number compared 
to the FFS only. Excelon® patches are in short supply. Motion to accept as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
2. Androgenic agents – Nothing new in this class.  Discussion/question is there any gender editing on the 
claim. Soft edit to the pharmacy. Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
3. Antiparkinson’s – compliance is 97%. Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
2
4. Antivirals, Oral – expanded class to include anti influenza agents and will combine at the next 
meeting.  
a. Antiherpetic agents are no changes.  Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
b. Anti Influenza agents. Overview and dosage forms are in the TCR. The 2013 -2014 guidelines 
not yet presented. Discussion to promote vaccination rather than post infection treatment. 
Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
c. Topical – compliance 44% due to Zovirax® cream. Motion to accept as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
5. BPH agents - Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
6. Bladder Relaxants – New product Myrbetriq® used cautiously based on metabolism. Drug therapy is 
secondary recommendation.  Update on Oxytrol ®patch will be OTC for women and prescriptive for 
men. Motion to accept as presented – passes with one abstention.   
7. CAM Antagonists – new product Xeljanz® with boxed warnings and drug interactions. Indication 
updated from Actemra®. Labeling on Stelara ® updated regarding anaphylaxis. Compliance 78%. 
Discussion when add compounds to the PDL without a major fiscal agents is done it provides more 
choices to prescribers.  Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
8. Erythropoietins – Omontys® withdrawn from the market. Compliance 92%. Motion to accept as 
presented – passes unanimously.  
9. Hepatitis C agents – New indication for Victrelis®. Discussion DUR committee to look at adherence 
with intent to treat. Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
10. Immunomodulators, Atopic dermatitis – no new information. Compliance 39% due to COB. Motion to 
accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
11. Ophthalmic agents 
a. Antibiotics – expand to aminoglycosides, macrolides etc. Motion to accept as presented – 
passes unanimously.  
b. Allergic conjunctivitis - Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
c. Glaucoma - New products Rescula®  and Simbrinza®. Discussion/Question do we know if the 
prescribers are ophthalmologists? Or primary care physicians?  Motion to accept as 
presented – passes unanimously.  
d. Anti-inflammatory agents – Two new products.  Ilvero®and Prolensa®.  Category expanded to 
include corticosteroids. Compliance 77%. Motion to accept as presented – passes with one 
abstention.  
12. Otic antibiotics – Expanded category to include the miscellaneous agents. The 2013 recommendations 
by AAP still recommend amoxicillin before using topical agents. Question benefit to State for leaving 
Ciprodex® on the PDL. Motion to accept as presented – passes with one abstention.  
13. Phosphate Binders – no new information.  Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously. 
Stimulants & Related Agents – New product Quillivant XR®. Other agents on PDL are biphasic. Labeling 
updates. Concern for lack of product availability as the year ends. Also there have been significant 
price increases.  About 6% of use is with Tenex® as generic, can we add this generically. Note that this 
not FDA approved and that is why it is not reviewed under this category.  Motion to accept as 
presented – passes unanimously.  
14. Stimulants and Related Agents - Move to recommend Provigil®,Nuvigil® and conjoiners to be clinically 
PA’d for only narcolepsy and limited to FDA indications. DUR to send out letters to prescribers and 
review indications. Motion to accept as presented – passes unanimously.  
 
The dates identified for the 2013 meetings are: December 10th with a possible change in date to earlier in the 
month.  Confirm and post meeting date. Tentative meeting dates for 2014 include:  
April 8th, June 3rd, August 26th and December 3 rd.  
 
As always, the meetings will begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:00 AM.\n