STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_apr_14.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, April 8, 2014               
 8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
 
 
 
 
 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
 
 
 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD  
Kristina Ward, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:   
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)  
 
 
 
Joe Paradis, RPh (HID) 
 
 
 
Jennifer Sternick, JD (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
  
Others Absent:   
Cathy Cordy, RPh (EOHHS) 
Deidre Gifford, MD (EOHHS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:10am.   
 
The December 2013 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented, with 
typographical corrections.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers and presentation topics:  
1. Arlene Price – Janssen, Invokana 
2. Traci Schilling –   Teva, Copaxone 
3. Neil Marotta, –  Pfizer, Gentropin 
4. Tom Algozzine – Novartis, Gilyena  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the committee. 
1. Acne Agents – New product Fabior. Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously.  
2. Antiemetics – New product, Diclegis; indications nausea/vomiting in pregnancy. Motion to accept as 
the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.     
a. Bone Resorption Inhibitors – Prolia has new indication. Discussion step edit suggested; If on 
bisphosphonate for x years, then should be able to get Forteo; add Prolia to theis edit. 12 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
2
months of bisphosphonate first. Amend motion to add criteria to Prolia to the step edit.    
Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
3. Growth Hormones – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
4. Hypoglycemics  
a. Alpha glucosidase inhibitors – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – 
passes unanimously.  
b. Incretin mimetics/enhancers – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – 
passes with one abstention. Discussion on the motion. Request step edit for Victoza. Must fail 
Byetta in the past 60 days; grandfather the patients currently on Victoza. Motion to accept as 
the recommendations as presented – passes with 1 abstention.   
c. Meglitindes - Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
d. Insulins – Note the addition of the Levemir and removal of the Novolin/Novalog. Motion to 
accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. Discussion and 
amendment on the motion; allow 90 day sundown for current patients on these agent; for 
new prior authorization requests for the Novolin/Novalog, look back 60 days forw history of 
Novolin/Novalog.  Motion passes unanimously 
e. Metformins – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
f. 
SGLT-2 – This is a new class for P & T review.  Product Invokana (canaglifozin).  Motion made, 
passes unanimously and discussion on the amendment; step therapy look back 6 months for 
two concurrent agents; also no grandfathering for these patients.  Motion to accept as the 
recommendations as presented, no preferred agents – passes unanimously 
g. Sulfonylureas – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
h. Thiazolidinediones – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
5. MS Agents – New product Tecfidera in the category. Discussion and amendment to look back 360 
days for failure of preferred agent. This is a change from the 90 days look back. Motion to accept as 
the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously.  
6. Pancreatic Enzymes – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes unanimously. 
7. Proton Pump Inhibitors – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
8. Psoriasis, Topical Agents – Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – passes 
unanimously. 
9. Topical Steroids – several new agents. Motion to accept as the recommendations as presented – 
passes unanimously. 
 
 
Upcoming Meetings  
Scheduled meeting dates for 2014 include: June 3rd, August 26th and December 3 rd. As always, the meetings will 
begin at 8:00 AM.   
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:45 AM. 
 
DUR Board  
1. Bisphosphonates – total duration of therapy after hospitalization for these patients. Did the patient 
have a fracture?  
2. Letter to the prescribers of growth hormones to let them know what drugs are preferred on the PDL. 
3. Letter to prescribers of Victoza to let them know this drug is coming off the PDL and telling them what 
the preferred agent is, could they switch to a preferred agent? Include in letter indications for Victoza.  
4. Letter to prescribers of Novolin/Novolog regarding change of the insulin products. Switch to allow 
patients and they can continue to have the product x 3 months.  
5. If someone is started on SGLT2 that they stay on the two antidiabetic agents.\n