STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun_16.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, June 7th, 2016 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD  
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross  
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (Hewlett Packard Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (Hewlett Packard Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:02 am.   
 
The December 2015 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Rob Picone, NovoNordisk; Victoza, Genotropin, Triceba, Norditropin.   
2. Mark Vincent, Merck; Zepatier.  
3. Shaffee Bacchus, Janssen; Invokana.  
4. Sherry Orbach, Bristol Myers Squibb; Daklinza.  
5. Tom Algozzine, Novartis. Gilenya.  
6. Brian Calamari, Abbvie; Viekira Pak, Zinbryta.  
7. Jeff Olson, Gilead; Harvoni.  
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with discussion 
from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
 
Review April 2016 P & T Categories.  
 
Category Reviews:   
1. Acne Agents. Change from clindamycin gel and prefer brand retina rather than brand. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations and there is discussion on the motion. Our rates are relatively low vs the PDL, request 
benchmark RI against other states.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.   
2. Antiemetics. One new product in category, new generic metoclopramide ODT.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
3. Antihyperurecemics.  No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion 
and unanimously approved.  
4. Antiviral agents, oral. 
a. HSV Agents. Recommend adding Zoviraz suspension. Motion made to accept the recommendations; 
no discussion and unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
b. Influenza Agents. No new clinical information. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.  
c. 
Hepatitis C Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is discussion on the 
motion. Updated group on the AASLD and IDSA guidelines. Expect another product in June and in the 
fall of 2016. How do the RI PDL recommendations compare to other states? What is Veterans 
Administration doing?  Observing a creep on duration of therapy; original efficacy is falling by the 
wayside. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
5. Antivirals, topical. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion 
and unanimously approve. 
6. Bone Resorption Inhibitors. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and approved with one opposed vote.  
7. Growth Hormones.  Updated Nutropin AQ. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approve.  
8. Hypoglycemics. 
a. Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors. No changes to the category Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
b. Incretin mimetics/enhancers. FDA update, product labeling for the class to be updated. No changes to 
the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
c. 
Insulin, hypoglycemic. New medications Toujeo and Tresiba. Suggest addition of Humalog pen and 
Humalog mix pen. Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is discussion on the 
motion. Have endocrinologists had any concerns? Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved with one abstention.  
d. Meglitinides. No changes to the category.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.  
e. Metformins, New generic metformin; fluctuations in cost/supply. Category will be watched closely. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved with one 
abstention.  
f. 
SGLT-2. Invokana update and SGLT2 labeling changes.  New product Synjardy. Recommend add 
Invokamet to current PDL offerings.  Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is 
discussion on the motion. Question; what is going on with diabetes usage? Compared to other states? 
Magellan says it has increased. Do any states require diagnosis on prescriptions? Yes.  Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
g. 
Sulfonylureas. No new clinical information and no changes. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
h. Thiazolidinediones. REMS removed from rozioglitazone products. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
9. Immunomodulators 
a. Atopic dermatitis. No new clinical information. Add Protopic as preferred. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations and there is discussion on the motion. Discussion regarding compliance rate. 
Magellan thinks it is related to the generic.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.  
b. Topical. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approve.   
c. 
Multiple Sclerosis Agents. New generic Glatopa. Recommend addition of Gilenya to the PDL; would 
offer another choice and bring compliance to 100% rate.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
d. Pancreatic Enzymes.  No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.   
e. H. Pylori Agents. Note non-compliant because no utilization.  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approve.  
f. 
Proton Pump Inhibitors. Prilosec has age expansion down to 1 month (from 1 year). No changes to 
PDL. Compliance has always been difficult.  Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is 
discussion on the motion. Request DUR committee review utilization long term use of PPIs. Do any 
other states have duration limitation? Magellan reports says that in the past there were, but cost 
benefit ratio (cost of generic compared to cost of PA administration) is not favorable. Originally when 
first came out and biopsy or scope was required.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.   
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
3
10. Psoriasis, Topical Agents. No changes to the category. Utilization is misleading since so few prescriptions in the 
category.  
11. Topical Steroids. No clinical changes to the category. There are some new generics in the category. Motion 
made to accept the recommendations and there is discussion on the motion. What happens if someone has 
been on treatment? Patient remains on medication. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approve.  
 
 
Review June P & T Categories:  
 
Public Testimony June: 
1. Amy Tomasello, Mylan; Epipen. Free school program. www.epipens4schools.com.  
2. Dan Shan, AtrasZeneca; Movantik.  
 
Category Review 
 
1. Respiratory 
a. Antibiotics, Inhalers. New generic Kitabis Pak.  CF foundation guideline updated. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations and there is discussion on the motion. Why is there low compliance? 
Related to co-insurance? Yes. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
b. Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating. No changes clinically and add levoceterizine. Motion made to 
accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
c. 
Intranasal Rhinitis. No changes. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
d. Bronchodilators 
i. COPD Agents. Updated indicated Spiriva. GOLD guidelines did not contain any significant 
changes.  Several new products; Stiolto Respimat, Seebri Neohaler, Utibron Neohlaer. No 
changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
approved with one abstention. 
ii. Beta-Agonist. Add serovent; heard that foradil will not be available in the market but serovent 
would pick up the foradil pts. Approved Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
e. Glucocorticoids 
i. Inhaled. Add all strength of Pulmicort Respules. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and approved with one abstention.  
ii. Oral. No changes to recommendations. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
f. 
Leukotriene Modifiers. Recommend the montelukast granules become non-preferred, expect 
utilization to move to the chewable dose form (which could be crushed). Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
g. 
Epinephrine, Self-Injected. Expand category to include Adrenaclick. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations and there is discussion on the motion.  Do other states have quantity limits? Yes, 
both quantity limit and refill limit.  Request DUR review utilization and report at September meeting.  
Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved. 
2. Anti-infective Agents 
a. Antibiotics. 
i. GI. Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is discussion on the motion. Can 
we cover the vancomycin injectable dose form to make a solution for oral use?  Discussion on 
compounding.  Request follow up at next meeting regarding net cost of the Vancocin 
compared to the compounding the solution. FYI, commercial plans do not pay for the 
Vancocin, cover injected solution to make the oral suspension.  Motion made to withdraw the 
original motion. A new motion is made to include only the metronidazole; the motion passes 
unanimously.  
ii. Topical. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
iii. Vaginal. No clinical changes to the category. Recommend addition of metronidazole gel. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\n 
4
iv. Cephalosporins. Updated CDC guidelines for gonorrhea to include azithromycin. No changes. 
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
v. Quinolones, Oral.  Motion made to accept the recommendations and there is discussion on 
the motion. Oral antibiotics, are u aware of benchmarking from other states for restrictions 
for antibiotic use. Request Magellan follow up and report at next meeting. Concern regarding 
overutilization. Motion made to accept the recommendations; unanimously approved.  
vi. Macrolides/Ketolides. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
vii. Tetracyclines. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
viii. Antifungals.  
1. Oral. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
2. Topical. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; 
no discussion and unanimously approved. 
3. Ulcerative Colitis Agents. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
4. GI Motility Agents. New drug Viberzi. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
5. Methotrexate Agents. No changes to the category. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.   
 
 
2016 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
September 13th  
December 13th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:00 AM.\n