STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_jun_15.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
1
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, June 9th, 2015 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Chaz Gross, NAMI 
Matt Salisbury, MD  
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD  
 
P & T Members Absent:  Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Ben Copple, JD (EOHHS)  
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (HP Enterprise Services) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:05am.   
 
The April 2015 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented with one abstention.   
 
The committee held a discussion on Hepatitis C which was tabled from the April 7th meeting.  
 
Magellan provided a brief synopsis of P & T committee’s discussion to date which included a progression of 
discussion from December 2014 & April 2015 meeting regarding hepatitis c. Questions raised regarding resistance 
to new agents and elongation of therapy which could increase costs to State. Review of SVR rates for Viekira and 
Harvoni. Both drugs has drug interactions, prescribers should be cognizant of all medications their patients are 
taking. Treatment requires a committed patient and prescriber monitoring of their patients.  Questions regarding 
the difference between FFS and MCO polices and coverage under their plans. EOHHS has a single policy for 
treatment of hepatitis c which applies to both FFS and MCOs. Plans understand cost implications and Director 
would request dual availability. Committee prefers to come to their own conclusion for recommendation of drugs 
and to be empowered to expand drug availability if appropriate and then make recommendations to EOHHS. 
Review the PA process for those patients who would need a non preferred agent and confirmed continuation of 
therapy for patients who enter into Medicaid on a hepatitis c treatment regimen. A motion was made to accept 
the recommendations as presented; it was unanimously approved. 
 
The committee reviewed bylaws.    
Bylaws last reviewed and updated in 2007. Motion made to accept the revised bylaws.  Discussion on the motion.  
Presence of quorum would be 51%. Can attendance be telephonic? Would have to comply with open meeting laws 
which identifies who can dial in. Suggest a formal reach out to the DUR committee to include them onto P & T. 
Chair reports committee actively looking for new members. Suggestion; members be removed from board if they 
do not show up 50% of the time. Consistently need committee to show up for the meeting in its entirety. Terms 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
2
for members should be staggered. The motion is made to accept the revised bylaws, with the change to 51% for a 
quorum. The motion passes unanimously.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Alissa Amara, Teva. Qnasal.  
2. Laura Bartels. Abilify Maintena  
3. John Howard, Epipen  
4. Dan Foley, BI, Spiriva Respimat.  
5. Arthur Stucci. AstraZeneca. Movantik. 
6. Judy Cando. Synovion. Latuda.  
7. Will Mullen, Reckett Benckiser. Suboxone.  
8. Lee Marks, Zubsolv.   
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee. 
 
Motion made to clarify the RIGL regarding the words of “antiretrovirals”. Discussion on the motion: antiretrovirals 
are not the same; the compounds are not antiretroviral based, as wer have changed the English language. Motion 
passes with: 4 in favor and 2 against.  
 
Category Reviews 
1. Antibiotics, Inhaled. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
2. Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. Change in recommendations: add cetirizine solution.  
3. Intranasal Rhinitis.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
4. COPD Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
5. Beta Agonists. New product Strivedi Resipmat. Motion & discussion; what about the patients using 
Ventolin - can be maintained.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  
6. Glucocorticoids, Inhaled. New product Arnuity Ellipta. Motion made to accept the recommendations; 
no discussion and approved with one abstention.    
7. Glucocorticoids, Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
8. Leukotriene Modifiers. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
9. Epinephrine, Self-Injected. Discussion; review use and look to limit quantities. Motion made to accept 
the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved  
10. Antipsychotics, Atypicals. New indications for a number of products. Motion made to accept the 
recommendations. Discussion on the motion. Question why no recommendation to include generic 
aripiprazole; because no cost benefit to Medicaid at this time. General discussion; MHC’s would like 
open access to the whole class; if the class were open then this class would be treated differently than 
other drug classes.  Motion made to have open access for the whole class of medications. The motion 
does not pass; three votes in favor and four against. New motion to accept the recommendations as 
presented; 4 votes in favor and 2 against.   
11. Analgesics, Long Acting. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved.  General discussion question number of the amount of oxycontin patients and 
use of; what is the diversion rate of fentanyl patches? How does a patient get a prior authorization for 
long term use for non-preferred agent? Prescriber to have long term treatment plan for the patient.  
12. Analgesics, Short Acting.  Schedule changes: tramadol CIV and hydrocodone CII.  Discussion: what is 
per capita use? MMA will follow up. Should look at these by DUR. Is there a requirement to review 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
3
the PMP prior to prescribing?  Could it be a PA requirement?  Motion made to accept the 
recommendations; unanimously approved. 
13. Opiate Dependence Treatments.  Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. Discussion of Zubsolv diversion. 
14. Antimigraine Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
15. Sedative Hypnotics. New product Belsomra. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved.  
16. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. 
17. Antibiotics, GI. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
18. Antibiotics, Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
19. Antibiotics, Vaginal. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. New product Nevessa (another metronidazole).    
20. Cephalosporins & Related Antibiotics. Recommend expand category to include Suprax tablets and 
capsules. Question: is there first generation cephalosporin on the PDL?  Yes, they are not restricted.  
Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously approved.  
21. Fluroquinolones, Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.    
22. Macrolides/Ketolides. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
23. Tetracyclines. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
24. Antifungals, Oral. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
25. Antifungals, Topical. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved.  
26. Ulcerative Colitis Agents. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and 
unanimously approved. Delzicol has new indication.  
27. GI Motility Agents (previously known as IBA). Motion made to accept the recommendations; no 
discussion and unanimously approved. 
28. Methotrexate. Motion made to accept the recommendations; no discussion and unanimously 
approved. 
 
 
2015 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
August 25th 
December 1st 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 10:26AM. 
 
DUR Board Follow-up. 
1. Per capita use of SA narcotics, tramadol and hydrocodone.\n