STATE: Rhode Island\nURL: https://eohhs.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur226/files/2021-03/mm_dec_16.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://eohhs.ri.gov/providers-partners/provider-directories/pharmacy/pharmacy-therapeutics-committee\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nPharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, December 13th, 2016 
 
 
 
The Executive Office of Health & Human Services 
Center for Operations and Pharmacy Management  
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes  
 
Tuesday, December 13, 2016 
8:00 AM 
HP Enterprise Services 
301 Metro Center Blvd, Room 203 
Warwick, Rhode Island 02886 
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Present: Greg Allen, MD 
Scott Campbell, RPh 
Dave Feeney, RPh, Chairperson 
Rita Marcoux RPh, Co-Chairperson 
Richard Wagner, MD  
 
 
 
Kristina Ward, PharmD   
 
 
 
 
P & T Members Absent:  Chaz Gross 
Matt Salisbury, MD 
 
 
 
 
Others Present:  
Ann Bennett (Hewlett Packcard Enterprise) 
 
 
 
Jerry Fingerut, MD (Xerox) 
 
 
 
Karen Mariano, RPh (Hewlett Packcard Enterprise) 
 
 
 
Kathryn Novak, RPh (Magellan Medicaid Administration)    
 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson once a quorum was in attendance - 8:04 am.  Meeting 
minutes unanimously approved.  
 
The September 2016 meeting minutes were reviewed and by vote were accepted as presented.  
 
Annual Elections board members. Vote to keep the committee members and then broaden the committee. To 
include the MCAC and primary care committee.  
 
Public testimony included the following speakers:  
1. Trey Gardiner. Silvergate Pharmaceuticals. ACE inhibitors; Epaned, Qbrelis Powder for reconstitution; 
targeted for the pediatric population.  
2. Chris Dube. Astra Zeneca, Brilinta.  
3. Bruce Sill, BMS. Eliquis.  
4. Bill Murphy. Epilepsy Foundation (EF). Request meaningful access for drugs treating epilepsy be covered on 
the PDL. Narrow therapeutic range, unique formulations of drugs, such as sprinkles, extended release 
formulations. EF has concerns regarding delay in receiving medications associated with medications 
needing prior authorization and potential for breakthrough seizures. EF opposes prior authorizations along 
with fail first requirements. 
5. Michael Nelson, Sunovion Pharmacueticals. Aptiom.  
6. Bavisha Desai, United Therapeutics, Orenitram.  
7. Marjorie Levi, UCB, Vimpat. CIV control substance.  
8. Cheryl Ann Cruse, Pfizer. Lyrica, Pristiq and Flector.  
9. Shaffee Bachus, JNJ, Xarelto.  
10. Tom Algozzine, Novartis, Entresto. Jeff Olson, Gilead. Renexa.  
 
 
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration (MMA) presented the following categories for therapeutic class reviews with 
discussion from the pharmacy and therapeutics committee.  
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\nPharmacy & Therapeutics Committee Meeting Minutes, December 13th, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Angiotensin modulators & combinations. New generics in this category, Qubrelis and Byvlason are new 
products; new formulation for Epaned.  Guidelines updated from ACC. Motion made to accept; discussion 
on the motion. New generic available for Azor, why not add? MMA is monitoring but pricing for both the 
brand and generic is not favorable. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
2. Antianginal & anti-ischemic agents. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
3. Anticoagulants. New indication for Pradaxa & new strength. ACCP updated guidelines. Compliance down 
from last year due to wrap. Discussion for MMA to follow superiority in this category.  Motion made to 
accept; motion passes unanimously. 
4. Anticonvulsants. New products: Spiritam and Briviact.  Compliance down from last year to 74%. Some 
changes in the category. Motion made to accept; discussion on the motion; patients moving between 
brand and generic or even between generics. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
5. Antidepressants, other. Name change from Brintellix to Trintellix. Motion made to accept; discussion on 
the motion Why are both Wellbutrin XL and bupropion XL both on PDL? Not the same drug and not 
substitutable.  Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
6. Antidepressants, SSRI. Motion made to accept; discussion on the motion Will people on citalopram 
solution be able to continue to get this? Yes.  Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
7. Beta Blockers. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
8. Calcium Channel Blockers. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
9. Lipotropics, other. Compliance at 68%. Moving Tricor to generic. Motion made to accept; motion passes 
unanimously. 
10. Lipotropics, statins. Crestor has updated indicated age range has expanded for children. Motion made to 
accept; discussion on the motion. Question; has price for pravastatin increased significantly? MMA to 
check. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
11. Neuropathic pain. New pak products. Smart Rx “paks”, Active Pack and Dermacinrx. Motion made to 
accept; discussion on the motion. Neurontin has no indication for diabetic neuropathic pain. Shingles 
vaccine available. Speaker saying the group is better to use than the opioids.  
12. NSAIDS. Lots of combination kits in this class which are not cost effective. Motion made to accept; motion 
passes unanimously. 
13. Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Agents.  New drug Uptravi (selexipag). Motion made to accept; motion 
passes unanimously. 
14. Platelet Inhibitors. New product Yosprala. Updated ACC/AHA guidelines for dual antiplatelet treatment and 
PAD treatment. Motion made to accept; motion passes unanimously. 
 
2017 Meeting Schedule – 8:00 am  
April 4th 
June 13th 
September 12th 
December 12th 
 
Adjournment 
The meeting adjourned at 9:38 AM.\n