STATE: Alabama\nURL: https://www.medicaid.alabama.gov/documents/2.0_Newsroom/2.3_Publications/2.3.2_Annual_Report_Archive/2.3.2_FY23_Annual_Report.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.medicaid.alabama.gov/content/4.0_Programs/4.3_Pharmacy-DME/4.3.6_PandT_Committee.aspx\n\n--- Page 1 ---
ANNUAL
REPORT
FY 2023
ALABAMA
MEDICAID
AGENCY


--- Page 2 ---
MISSION: To promote availability of quality and innovative health care for
Alabamians through the efficient financing of services.
VISION: To play a key leadership role in ensuring availability and access to
appropriate health care for all Alabamians.
VALUES:
Respect
We are a caring organization that treats each individual with dignity,
empathy and honesty.
Integrity
Our stakeholders can depend on the quality, trustworthiness and 
reliability of our Agency’s employees and representatives.
Excellence
We are committed to maximizing our resources to ensure the residents of
Alabama have access to quality health care.
Teamwork
Our success depends upon establishing and maintaining effective
collaborative partnerships.
Innovation
We willingly embrace new ideas and new ways of doing things to 
effectively meet a changing health care environment.
Alabama Medicaid Agency
2


--- Page 3 ---
Dear Governor Ivey,
 
On behalf of the Alabama Medicaid Agency, I am proud to present the Fiscal Year (FY)
2023 Annual Report — an important reflection of our ongoing mission to serve
Alabama’s most vulnerable citizens with integrity, compassion and accountability.
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and partnership. Your support empowers us
to meet today’s challenges and prepare for tomorrow’s opportunities with confidence
and purpose.
 
This year’s report includes more streamlined, detailed and electronically accessible
data and analytics than ever before, reinforcing our commitment to transparency and
innovation in delivering access to health care for those who rely on us most. FY 2023
brought with it one of the most complex challenges in our Agency’s history: the
federally mandated “unwinding” of continuous Medicaid coverage following the
COVID-19 public health emergency (PHE). 
 
Through every uncertainty, the Alabama Medicaid team rose to the occasion. Guided
by an unwavering sense of duty, our staff worked tirelessly to ensure that those
eligible for the program continued to receive the care and coverage they depend on.
Their dedication, professionalism and resilience are a testament to our Agency’s core
values and enduring commitment to the health and well-being of the communities we
serve.
 
As we reflect on this extraordinary year and look to the future, we remain steadfast in
our pursuit of excellence. In a rapidly evolving healthcare landscape, Medicaid
continues to adapt, lead and serve the needs of our recipients.
With Sincere Appreciation,
Timothy “Bo” A. Offord, Jr.
Commissioner
Alabama Medicaid Agency 
501 Dexter Avenue
P.O. Box 5624
Montgomery, Alabama 36103-5624 
www.medicaid.alabama.gov e-mail:
almedicaid@medicaid.alabama.gov 
Telecommunication for the Deaf: 1-800-253-0799 
KAY IVEY
Governor 
334-242-5000 
1-800-362-1504 
TIMOTHY “BO” A. OFFORD, JR.
Commissioner 
Our Mission - to promote availability of quality and innovative health care for Alabamians through the efficient financing of services.
3


--- Page 4 ---
Table of Contents
4
3
Letter to the Governor
Commissioner Timothy “Bo” A. Offord, Jr.
4
2
Alabama Medicaid Agency Mission Statement
Agency mission, vison and values
5
Alabama Medicaid Leadership in FY 2023
Agency leadership
6-7
What is New in FY 2023?
FY 2023 overview including new Agency initiatives & programs
8-9
Eligibility
Eligible recipients and qualifying agencies
10-11
FY 2023 Charts & Graphs
Links to user-friendly interactive detailed data
14-18
Third Party/Program Integrity
Cost avoidance, enrollment procedures and financials
19
Fiscal
Alabama Medicaid total expenditures
Table of Contents
Main topics and corresponding page numbers
Programs & Services
Alabama Medicaid medical and long-term care services
20


--- Page 5 ---
Alabama Medicaid Leadership
in Fiscal Year 2023
Governor
Kay Ivey
Commissioner
Stephanie McGee Azar
Deputy Commissioner - Beneficiary Services
Gretel Felton
Deputy Commissioner - Business & Finance
David McIntosh
Deputy Commissioner - Health Systems
Barry Cambron
Deputy Commissioner - Information Systems & Technology
Mason Tanaka
Deputy Commissioner - Program Administration
Ginger Carmack
Director - Office of Agency Relations
Henry W. Davis, III
Office of General Counsel
Stephanie McGee Azar
5


--- Page 6 ---
COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Unwinding
In fiscal year (FY) 2023, the Alabama Medicaid Agency (Medicaid) initiated a challenging
"unwinding" process of its Medicaid program, following the conclusion of federal continuous
coverage requirements established during the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency (PHE).
This process involved redetermining the eligibility of Medicaid recipients, prompting a
statewide campaign to notify stakeholders of this change.
During the COVID-19 PHE, the federal government implemented a continuous coverage
requirement, preventing states from disenrolling Medicaid recipients regardless of changes
in eligibility. This policy led to an increase in Medicaid enrollment. 
Throughout the PHE, Medicaid continued to mail renewal notices to recipients and to
process applications. However, recipients were not disenrolled, even if they did not respond
or were determined as ineligible. This was in compliance with the Families First Coronavirus
Response Act (FFCRA) for states to receive increased federal funds (or FMAP) during the
pandemic. Recipients were only removed from Medicaid if they moved out of state, passed
away, or requested to be removed.
Background: End of Continuous Coverage
 
Overview of FY 2023
 
Updates to the Annual Report Format
Starting with this edition of the Alabama Medicaid Agency Annual
Report, detailed charts and data are available through the  
Agency's Analytics website. For convenience, hyperlinks to each
chart are embedded throughout this publication. This streamlined
approach allows Medicaid to share information more concisely
while supporting a more efficient publication process.
6


--- Page 7 ---
 
Overview of FY 2023(continued)
 
7
In April 2023, Medicaid began notifying recipients that their coverage could
end at the time of their regular renewal if they did not respond or were no
longer eligible. Recipients were only disenrolled after a full redetermination of
eligibility had been completed.
Throughout unwinding, Medicaid provided ongoing communication to
stakeholders through webinars, meetings, printed materials, digital resources
and social media outreach.
COVID-19 PHE Response to Unwinding
Looking Ahead
As Alabama moved beyond the
unwinding period, attention
turned to ensuring that eligible
recipients maintained their
coverage. The state continued
to encourage Medicaid
recipients to update their
contact information and
respond promptly to renewal
notices to prevent unnecessary
coverage disruptions.
Medicaid began providing
electronic notifications to
recipients in advance of their
renewal month which
continued past the unwinding
period. Recipients with a valid
email address and cell phone
number on file still continue to
receive renewal reminders
electronically through these
communication channels.


--- Page 8 ---
Qualifying Agencies
There are agencies other than Medicaid that determine Medicaid
eligibility. 
1 - The Alabama Department of Human Resources certifies foster
children and children who receive state or federal adoption assistance. 
2 - The Social Security Administration certifies aged, blind and disabled
persons who have very low income and qualify for cash assistance
through the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program.
Medicaid is responsible for certifying applicants for Medicaid through
the Alabama Breast and Cervical Cancer program and certain children
who reside in the Department of Youth Services group homes
including: 
Aged, Blind or Disabled individuals who are ineligible for SSI and
Low-income Medicare beneficiaries seeking Medicaid's help paying
for Medicare premiums and/or copayments.
 
3 - Medicaid and the Alabama Department of Public Health’s ALL Kids
program are responsible for certification of the following eligibility
groups: 
Parents and Other Caretaker Relatives (formerly known as MLIF); 
Children through age 18 eligible for Medicaid or ALL Kids; 
Pregnant Women; 
Plan First (Family Planning) Program; 
Former Foster Care Youth; and 
Emergency Services for Non-Citizens.
FY 2023 Eligibility
Eligibles
The Medicaid program covered over 28 percent* of all Alabama citizens at some point
during FY 2023, including nearly 59 percent of all children. More than half of all deliveries to
Alabama residents were funded by Medicaid. Meanwhile, aged and disabled recipients
represented a smaller percentage (26 percent) of eligible individuals. Costs associated
with this group accounted for approximately 61 percent of all expenditures for the Agency
in FY 23.
 
Applicants undergo a rigorous screening and verification process before being approved
for benefits. In addition to income, citizenship and other records are validated. Elderly and
disabled applicants are also screened for resources and transfer of assets. In almost all
cases, Alabama’s financial eligibility limits are at the federal minimum level. 
*During the PHE, most Medicaid recipients remained eligible for benefits under the Maintenance of Effort
(MOE) condition.
8


--- Page 9 ---
FY 2023 Eligibility
9
Expenditures, based on dates of service, include claims, capitations and access payments based on dates of service in FY 2023. 
Per Member Per Year (PMPY) calculations are not for the purpose of determining managed care rates and do not align to date paid
numbers.
   The income limit for this group is 141% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL), but in cases of excess income, FPL disregard of 5% then
applies.
1
FY 2014-2023 Enrollment and Annual Cost per Enrollee
1
  Annual Cost Per Enrollee is based on total Agency Expenditures, including administrative costs.
1
Who Does Alabama Medicaid Serve?


--- Page 10 ---
Click title in left column to open interactive version with detailed data.
FY 2023 Charts & Graphs
10
TITLE
DESCRIPTION
FY 2021-2023 Medicaid and
Alabama Overview
Year-Over-Year Medicaid Expenditures and
Funding Sources, Utilization and Eligibles
Medicaid Eligibles
Alabama Medicaid Eligibility Trends and the
State's Census Population
FY 2014-2023 Medicaid Eligibles as Percent
of the Population by Year
FY 2014-2023 Monthly Average Annual
Medicaid Eligibles
Annual Cost Per Monthly Average
Eligible for Medical Care by Aid
Category, Gender, Race and Age
Annual Medicaid Expenditure Stratified by Aid
Category, Gender, Race and Age
Annual Eligibles by County
Medicaid Annual Eligibles by County
Medicaid Annual Eligibles by Aid
Category and County
Annual Eligibles by Aid Category by County
Average Annual Benefit Payments
Per Monthly Average Eligibles by
County
County Impact: Annual Benefit Payments Per
Monthly Average Eligibles by County
Annual Benefit Payments Per
Provider Type by County
County Impact: Annual Benefit Payments Per
Provider Type by County
Hospital Program
Medicaid Hospital Expenditure, Recipients,
and Annual Average Cost per Recipient Trends
by Demographics
Inpatient Hospital Program
Outpatient Hospital Program


--- Page 11 ---
Click title in left column to open interactive version with detailed data.
FY 2023 Charts & Graphs
TITLE
DESCRIPTION
Nursing Home and HCBS Waiver
Utilization and Expenditures
Nursing Home and HCBS Waiver Utilization
Trends and Year-Over-Year Medicaid
Expenditures
Long Term Care Program
Summary of Medicaid Long-Term Care
Expenditures and Recipients, Categorized by
Facility
Long Term Care Program - Intermediate Care
Facility for the Intellectually Disabled
Long Term Care Program – Utilization
Long Term Care Program - Patient Days and
Costs
Long Term Care Program -
Recipients and Claims Payments by
Gender, Race and Age
Summary of Medicaid Long-Term Care
Expenditures and Recipients, Categorized by
Demographics
Pharmacy Program
Pharmacy Program Trends: Benefit Payments,
Recipients and Prescriptions
Pharmacy Program – Expenditures
Pharmacy Program - Member Utilization
Pharmacy Program - Cost Per Member and
Recipient
Physician Services - Cost and
Utilization by Age Category
Physician Services Summary of Payments,
Recipients and Cost per Recipient, by Age Group
Total State Share Funding Received
Distribution of State Share Funding Received
Expenditures by Type of Service
Distribution of Medicaid Expenditures by Type of
Service
Expenditures for Medical Services
by Coverage and Aid Category
Expenditures for Medical Services Categorized
by Coverage and Eligibility
Total Sources of Medicaid Funding
Federal and State Share Funding Sources
Received by Alabama Medicaid
11


--- Page 12 ---
FY 2023 Expenditures by County
Click on the map to open the interactive version to view expenditures, eligibles
and other detailed county level data.
12


--- Page 13 ---
 
13
Aid Categories Explained
Aged, Blind, or Disabled (ABD)
Individuals who are eligible for Medicaid services because they are
65 years of age or older, blind or disabled. This includes individuals
eligible for SSI through the Social Security Administration, and
other aged, blind or disabled individuals who meet Medicaid
income, resource and medical level of care criteria, and who
receive services in a certified Long Term Care facility or Medicaid
waiver services in the community. 
Children
Includes foster children, newborns of Medicaid-eligible mothers
and all children under age 19 whose family income is at or below 146
percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL).
Parents and Other Caretaker Relatives (POCR)
Individuals with family income at or below 18 percent FPL, who are
parents or close relatives of a dependent child under age 19 who
live with and assume responsibility for the child’s care. 
Pregnant Women
Pregnant women who are only eligible for Medicaid during
pregnancy and 12 months postpartum, with family income at or
below 146 percent FPL. 
Plan First
A limited Medicaid program that provides only family planning
services to women 19 through 55, and vasectomies to men age 21
and up, with income at or below 146 percent FPL, who would not
otherwise qualify for Medicaid. 
Limited Medicare Programs
These are programs for low-income Medicare beneficiaries who
receive no Medicaid services but are eligible for Medicaid to help
pay some of their Medicare cost-sharing expenses.  


--- Page 14 ---
FY 2023 Programs and Services
Almost 100 hospitals are enrolled to serve Medicaid recipients. Most hospitals have an
average Medicaid occupancy rate of 14-18 percent. However, two hospitals (Children’s
of Alabama in Birmingham and USA Health Children's & Women's Hospital in Mobile)
have substantially higher Medicaid occupancy rates. 
Alabama Medicaid provided $8.59 billion in medical benefits to more than one million
enrollees in FY 2023. Recipients had at least one medical service, ranging from
hospital care and doctor visits, to medications, transportation or medical equipment.
Medicaid also provided an additional $209 million for hospital services for the
indigent/uninsured in the form of Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments. 
Hospital funding sources – including provider taxes and Intergovernmental Transfers
(IGT) – contributed $650 million, or 33 percent, to Medicaid’s state share used to
match federal dollars.
Alabama Medicaid reimbursed hospitals approximately $3.1 billion in FY 2023. These
costs include inpatient hospitals, inpatient psychiatric hospitals, inpatient access,
outpatient hospitals, outpatient access and DSH payments.
14
Hospitals


--- Page 15 ---
Pharmacy
The wide variety of drugs available today substantially impacts the Medicaid Pharmacy
Program since federal regulations require that most drugs be covered. Children under age
21 receive pharmacy as a mandated service while pharmacy coverage for adults is optional.
In FY 2023, approximately 593,000 unique recipients received approximately 7.2 million
prescriptions at a total cost of $1 billion. Management tools, such as the preferred drug
program, monthly prescription limits for adults, maximum unit limits and system edits are
used to limit the cost of the program. 
A major component of the pharmacy budget is the Part D “clawback” which is a federally
required payment made by the state to the federal government for Medicare Part D.
Alabama paid approximately $75.5 million in FY 2023. 
Funding sources for the pharmacy program include Medicaid’s federal and state drug
rebate program which reduces Medicaid’s General Fund need. The state share portion of
drug rebates, paid by drug manufacturers, totaled approximately $132 million in 2023.
Physicians
In FY 2023, Medicaid provided federally
mandated physician services to 727,242
unique recipients. Total expenditures for
the physician services in the Physician
Program reached $529 million.  
 
Through the Medicaid Physician’s Primary
Care Enhanced Rates “Bump” Program,
Medicaid has been able to reimburse
primary care providers with a payment
“bump” 
initiated 
in 
2013. 
Physicians
associated with teaching facilities and
Alabama Coordinated Health Networks
(ACHNs) may receive enhanced fees.
Mental Health & HCBS Waivers
The Alabama Department of Mental
Health (ADMH) partners with Medicaid to
provide mental health services including
mental health rehabilitation services,
substance use disorder (SUD) treatment,
targeted 
case 
management 
(TCM),
intermediate 
care 
facilities 
for 
the
intellectually disabled, and three Home
and Community-Based Services (HCBS)
waivers that enable individuals with
intellectual disabilities to live in the
community. 
In FY 2023, these services accounted for
approximately $570 million in costs, with
an estimated 76 percent of expenditures
attributed to the three HCBS waivers.
ADMH also provides the state matching
funds required to support these services.
FY 2023 Programs and Services
15


--- Page 16 ---
Long Term Care
Nursing home care is one of the original services offered through Medicaid and continues to
represent a significant portion of Medicaid expenditures. 
In FY 2023, approximately 219 Alabama nursing facilities, with a total of 26,220 beds,
accepted Medicaid reimbursement.  Medicaid patient days accounted for 54 percent of total
bed days.
 
A total of 20,889 recipients received nursing home care costing $1.217 billion.
To help offset the state share of these expenditures, nursing homes pay a per-bed
assessment that provided $117 million in FY 2023. Nursing homes are paid on a per diem basis
with part of the payment potentially coming from the recipient. The rate paid is based on the
allowable costs of nursing homes reported annually to Medicaid as outlined in Alabama
statute. 
Seven HCBS waivers make it possible for approximately 19,164 qualified unique Medicaid
recipients to live in the community instead of institutions. Medicaid spent approximately
$632 million on HCBS waiver services, with the state share primarily funded by other state
agencies. In addition to the independence and quality of life these waivers offer, the average
annual cost of a waiver recipient that meets the nursing facility level of care was $17,978,
versus the average annual cost of nursing home care of $85,344 in FY 2023.             
FY 2023 Programs and Services
Other Medical Services
Health Support services and Alternative Care services represent a significant number of
services provided each year. Major Health Support services include dental, EPSDT (child
health), independent lab and x-ray, eye care, ambulance, state laboratory and hearing
services, all of which are separate from the Physician Program. 
In FY 2023, these services represented $379 million in expenditures for Medicaid. Unlike other
budget categories, most are funded by General Fund dollars except for approximately $35
million allocated through tobacco settlement funds. Alternative Care budget items include
maternity care, rehabilitative services, hospice care, hospice room and board, durable
medical equipment, home health, targeted case management and prosthetic devices.      
FY 2023 expenditures for these services were approximately $438 million.
Family Planning services are provided to two major groups of Medicaid recipients: those with
full benefits and those who qualify for Plan First, an optional waiver program which only
provides family planning services. Family Planning services receive a 90 percent federal
match and include birth control services (including vasectomies for men) and supplies. ADPH
pays the majority of the state share for the Plan First waiver participants. In FY 2023,
expenditures for Family Planning services totaled $36 million.
16


--- Page 17 ---
FY 2023 Programs and Services
Implemented in October 2019, the Alabama
Coordinated 
Health 
Network 
(ACHN)
transformed 
health 
care 
provided 
to
Medicaid recipients in Alabama through a
more flexible and cost-efficient delivery
system. 
Medicaid designed the ACHN to create a
single care coordination delivery system
that effectively links patients, providers and
community resources in each of seven
defined regions. The ACHNs provide care
management for recipients with locating a
provider, 
appointments, 
transportation,
referrals and answering questions.
17
Integrated Care Network (ICN) promotes a
person-centered approach to care that
better aligns recipients’ medical needs with
Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS).
This model emphasizes helping individuals
receive LTSS in the least restrictive setting
of their choice. 
Through a Primary Care Case Management
Model, the ICN program is designed to: 
Improve education and outreach about
LTSS for Medicaid recipients. 
Identify individuals who may benefit
from community-based options and
alternatives to institutional care. 
Strengthen case management to better
integrate the full range of medical and
social services. 
Support 
incremental 
changes 
to
Alabama’s LTSS system to prepare for
future increased demand. 
Drive a percentage shift of the LTSS
population residing in the HCBS setting.
Alabama Coordinated Health Network
Integrated Care Network 


--- Page 18 ---
FY 2023 Programs and Services
Program of All-Inclusive Care for
the Elderly
The Program of All-Inclusive Care for the
Elderly (PACE) continues to provide
community-based care and services to
elderly and disabled adults in Mobile and
Baldwin counties who would otherwise
need nursing home care. 
During FY 2023, PACE offered 232 unique
recipients comprehensive medical and
social services in an adult day health
center, supplementing with in-home and
referral services as needed. Financing for
the 
program 
is 
capped 
allowing
providers 
to 
deliver 
all 
services
participants need rather than limit them
to those reimbursable under Medicare
and Medicaid fee-for-service plans. 
Most PACE participants are dually eligible
for Medicare and Medicaid benefits and
once enrolled, the recipient receives all
health 
services 
through 
the 
PACE
program.
18
Nurse-Family Partnership
Nurse-Family Partnership (NFP) became a
statewide program for eligible Medicaid
recipients in January 2022. NFP is a
nationally 
recognized, 
evidence-based
community 
health 
program 
which
provides services to qualifying Alabama
Medicaid 
recipients, 
including 
home
visiting services for prenatal, postpartum
and infant care until the child reaches age
two. The goals of the program include
improved health outcomes for mother
and child, reduced infant and maternal
mortality, 
increased 
healthy 
spacing
between 
births 
to 
24 
months, 
and
decreased expenditures among families
who receive NFP services. 


--- Page 19 ---
Some examples of how Program Integrity
detects improper payments include: 
Provider reviews 
Analysis and data mining 
Referrals from a State Agency 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (CMS) 
Provider self-reporting of
overpayments 
Complaints
Cost Avoidance
Stringent provider enrollment
procedures 
Review and recommend policy and
system edits 
Locking recipients into one doctor 
Ensuring eligibility is determined
correctly
 
 
 
FY 2023
Third Party Liability/Program Integrity
The 
Program 
Integrity 
Division 
is
responsible for planning, developing and
directing Medicaid's efforts to identify,
prevent and assist in prosecuting fraud,
abuse 
and/or 
misuse. 
This 
includes
verifying 
that 
medical 
services 
are
appropriate and rendered as billed, that
services 
are 
provided 
by 
qualified
providers 
to 
eligible 
recipients, 
that
payments for those services are correct,
and that all funds identified for collection
are pursued. 
Effective cost avoidance and recovery activities reduce expenditures by preventing
fraud, waste and abuse of funds. The Third Party Liability Division and the Program
Integrity Division work to ensure that the expenditure of public funds is managed in
accordance with state and federal rules and regulations. 
Third Party Liability
The Third Party Liability (TPL) Division
saves taxpayers millions of dollars each
year through coordination of benefits,
cost avoidance activities and recoveries 
from liens, estates and other liable
payers. 
During 
FY 
2023, 
TPL* 
was
successful in saving Alabama taxpayer
money in the following ways: 
The cost avoidance of claims where
providers were required to file with
the primary payer first
($253,806,348–commercial insurance
$595,565,768–Medicare);
Health insurance recovery from
primary payers ($24,746,599);
Medicare recoupments ($4,281,621);
Casualty/tort recovery ($5,100,658);
Liens and estate recovery
($17,379,249);
Credit balance recovery ($593,126); 
Recipient overpayment recoveries
($30,748).
 
Program Integrity
19
Collections from FY 2023 totaled $57.2
million primarily from TPL, which
includes retroactive Medicare
recoupments from providers,
collections due to health insurance and
casualty subrogation, estate recovery
and recovery of misspent funds
resulting from eligibility errors.
Additionally, Program Integrity
collected and reported $5.0 million. 
*Note:  The calculation methodology used is different from
methodology used for federal reporting requirements.
Collections


--- Page 20 ---
FY 2023 Fiscal
Alabama Medicaid’s total expenditures totaled $9.076 billion in FY 2023. A state match of
$2.058 billion was paired with $7.018 billion in federal matching funds to cover the cost.
The state General Fund provided 8 percent, or $813 million, of the total cost.
20


--- Page 21 ---
FY 2023 Annual Report 
October 1, 2022 - September 30, 2023 
Alabama Medicaid Agency 
PO Box 5624 (501 Dexter Avenue) 
Montgomery, AL 36103-5624
Statistical data is provided by the Alabama Medicaid Analytics Division.
This report is available at 
https://medicaid.alabama.gov/content/2.0_Newsroom/2.3_Publications.aspx.\n