STATE: Montana
GROUP: group-c
URL: https://medicaidprovider.mt.gov/docs/pharmacydur/2026/June2026DURMeetingAgenda.pdf
SEED_URL: https://medicaidprovider.mt.gov/19dur
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: June 24, 2026
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Montana Healthcare Programs Drug Utilization Review Board Agenda 
Hosted by Mountain Pacific Quality Health 
June 24, 2026 
1-5 PM 
Virtual Call Only 
Register in advance for this meeting: 
https://events.teams.microsoft.com/event/168aa532-185c-4a42-9545-d49e75b0c4ac@1f053f7a-
e47d-43fd-9182-8507c9ff10c7 [events.teams.microsoft.com] 
1. Introductions 
2. Public Comment- 15 minutes 
Public Comment will be permitted on items over which the DUR Board has jurisdiction. 
All persons wishing to speak through the video conferencing platform must notify the 
Department by submitting their name and topic they wish to speak on via 
https://forms.office.com/g/EkPyKbJYTv by noon the day prior to the meeting. Individual 
comment will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes per person and is subject to further 
limitations depending on the number of speakers (15 minutes divided by total speakers). 
Due to time constraints, all persons are encouraged to provide written comment, 
especially those providing clinical information, to allow the board adequate time to 
review and research. Please email written comments and/or clinical information, with a 
statement indicating that it is public comment, to PDL@mt.gov at least 7 days prior to the 
meeting. Please limit clinical information to 2 pages and to new information since last 
review. New peer-reviewed randomized comparative controlled trials or randomized 
controlled trials with true health outcomes are most helpful. Please do not provide any 
pricing information. Materials submitted less than 7 days prior to the meeting, in excess 
of 2 pages, and/or including pricing information will not be included in the board 
members’ meeting packets. 
3. Meeting Minutes 
• May 2026 PDL Board Meeting Minutes 
4. Department Update 
5. PA Criteria Update 
• Age Extensions and Language Updates 
o Rinvoq® FDA labeling update 
o Stelara® age expansion 
o Tzield® age expansion 
o Xeljanz® age expansion 
• New Indication/Formulation 
o Dupixent® new indication and age expansion 
o Sotyktu® new indication 
6. New Drugs 
--- Page 2 ---
• IcotydeTM (icotrokinra) 
• Nereus® (tradipitant) 
7. Follow up from PDL meetings 
• Spravato® review of counseling requirements 
• Antifungals: 
o Griseofulvin 
o Ketoconazole 
• Lipid lowering agents: 
o Evkeeza® age expansion and criteria review 
o Leqvio® new indication 
o Praluent® update and criteria review 
o Repatha® criteria review 
8. PA Criteria removal 
• Pulmozyme® 
• Benlysta® 
• Calcitonin-salmon (nasal)