STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Information/Get-Download-File?Filename=PCSK9%20PA%20FormFinal.pdf&URI=Forms/PCSK9%20PA%20FormFinal.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Please Note: Pharmacies should not be contacting prescribers to provide pre-signed PA forms or submitting pre-signed forms for PA, nor should prescribing providers be requesting that 
pharmacies perform PA activities for them. PA requests must originate from the prescriber, and only the prescriber should sign the form at the time of PA submission. 
I certify that documentation is maintained in my files and the information given is true and accurate for the medication requested, subject to penalty under section 17b-99 of the Connecticut 
General Statutes and sections 17-83k-1- to 17-83k-7, inclusive, of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies. I certify that the above-referenced member is a patient under my 
clinic’s/practice’s ongoing care. I understand that a prior authorization may not exceed one (1) year from the date of fill for non- controlled medications. Authorizations for Early Refill 
Requests are valid one time only. 
Prescriber Signature*: 
Date: 
* Mandatory (others may not sign for prescriber). In accordance with federal law, prescribers must be enrolled in the Connecticut Medical
Assistance Program (CMAP). CMAP will not pay for prescriptions written by a non-enrolled provider.
STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES TELEPHONE: 
TELEPHONE: 1-866-409-8386 
FAX: 1-866-759-4110 
PCSK9i Prior Authorization (PA) Request Form CT Medical 
Assistance Program 
[To be used for authorization of Repatha, Praluent and Leqvio] 
To Be Completed By Prescriber 
Prescriber Information 
Patient Information 
Prescriber’s NPI: 
Patient’s Medicaid ID Number: 
Prescriber Name: 
Patient Name: 
Phone # ( 
) 
Patient DOB: 
Fax # ( 
) 
Primary ICD diagnosis code: 
Prescription Information 
Drug Requested: 
Frequency of Dosing: 
□New therapy
□ Continuation
Quantity Requested: 
Clinical Information 
Repatha: Patients aged 10 - 17 years: 
Is there a diagnosis of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) or heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia 
(HeFH) and requires additional lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) as an adjunct to diet and exercise? 
□Yes □ No
Repatha : Patients 18 years of age or older: 
Is there a diagnosis of hypercholesterolemia, homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or is the patient at an increased risk of major cardiovascular events (CV death, myocardial 
infarction, stroke, unstable angina requiring hospitalization, or coronary revascularization) AND
For the diagnosis of hypercholesterolemia, homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), and heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), will Repatha be used in combination with diet and exercise to reduce low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C)? 
□Yes □ No
Praluent: Patients aged 8 - 17 years: 
Is there a diagnosis of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) and requires additional lowering of low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) as an adjunct to diet and other LDL-C lowering therapies? 
□Yes □ No
Praluent: Patients 18 years of age or older: 
Is there a diagnosis of primary hyperlipidemia including, homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), heterozygous 
familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and requires additional 
lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) as an adjunct to diet and other LDL-C lowering therapies? 
□Yes □ No
Leqvio: Patients 18 years of age or older: 
Is there a diagnosis of primary hyperlipidemia including, heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or clinical 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and requires additional lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) 
as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy? 
□Yes □ No
If you answered 'NO' to any of the questions above corresponding to the requested medication, a Letter of Medical Necessity (LMN) must
be reviewed for consideration. Please provide all relevant information relating to the medical necessity (see Conn. Gen. Stat § 
17b-259b(a)) of either Repatha, Praluent or Leqvio for this patient. Submit request, via email, to rx.lmn@ct.gov. 
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-2521 and the Standards for Privacy of 
Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended recipient is hereby notified that the information is privileged and 
confidential, and any use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient should contact Gainwell Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and 
destroy the original message. 
PCSK9i Prior Authorization Form 9/2025\n