STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Information/Get-Download-File?Filename=Insulin_Pump_PA_pharmacy.pdf&URI=Forms/Insulin_Pump_PA_pharmacy.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
TELEPHONE: 1-866-409-8386 
FAX: 1-866-759-4110 
CT Medical Assistance Program 
Insulin Pump (Cequr, Omnipod) Pharmacy Prior Authorization (PA) Request Form 
This form must be completed by the prescribing provider. If the form is missing information, the PA will not be processed. 
Prescriber Information 
Patient Information 
Prescriber’s NPI: 
Patient Name: 
Prescriber Name: 
Patient's ID Number: 
Phone #: 
Patient DOB: 
Fax #: 
Primary ICD Diagnosis Code: 
Please select only 
ONE device per 
prior authorization 
request form: 
Clinical Information 
□
OmniPod Dash Pods (Gen 4) 5pk - PODS ONLY (not OmniPod Dash Kit)
□
OmniPod 5 DexG7G6 Pods (Gen 5) & OmniPod 5 DexG7G6 Intro Kit (Gen 5)
□
OmniPod 5 (G6/Libre 2 Plus) & OmniPod 5 Intro (G6/Libre2Plus)
□
Cequr Simplicity Inserter (NDC 73108-0001-00)
Cequr Simplicity 2u 4-day Patch (NDC 73108-0000-08)
1. 
For patients currently established on insulin pump therapy: Are the following statements TRUE: 
1. Physician monitoring is planned
2. Proper use and continued benefit has been established by diabetes care team
☐Yes ☐ No
2. 
For patients NOT currently established on insulin pump therapy: Are ALL relevant below statements 
TRUE: 
1. Patient has a diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus Type 1 or 2
2. Patient has been testing ≥ 4 times per day for ≥ 8 weeks or is using a continuous glucose
monitor (CGM)
3. Patient or caregiver motivated to assume responsibility for self-care and insulin management
4. Patient or caregiver demonstrates knowledge of importance of nutrition including carbohydrate counting
and meal planning
5. Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: Has completed a Diabetes Management Program
6. Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: Has self-administered injections ≥ 3 times per day and have performed
self-adjusted dose changes for ≥ 6 months (adults) or ≥ 3 months (pediatric)
7. Patient with Type 2 Diabetes: Has experienced 3 ≥ of the following conditions:
- Unexplained, nocturnal, or severe hypoglycemia
- Hypoglycemia unawareness
- Dawn Phenomenon blood glucose > 200 mg/dl
- Wide and unpredictable (erratic) swings in blood glucose levels
- Glycemic targets within individualized range but lifestyle requires increased flexibility of insulin
pump use
- Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1C) > 7% or outside of individualized targets
☐Yes ☐ No
If you answered 'NO' to the applicable question above as it relates to your patient, a Letter of Medical Necessity 
(LMN) must be reviewed for consideration. Please provide all relevant information relating to the medical necessity 
(see Conn. Gen. Stat § 17b-259b(a)) for this patient. Submit request, via email, to rx.lmn@ct.gov. 
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-2521 and the Standards for Privacy of Individually 
Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended recipient is hereby notified that the information is privileged and confidential, and any use, disclosure, or 
reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient should contact Gainwell Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and destroy the original message. 
Insulin Pump Pharmacy PA Request Form 10/2025 
Please Note: Pharmacies should not be contacting prescribers to provide pre-signed PA forms or submitting pre-signed forms for PA, nor should prescribing providers be 
requesting that pharmacies perform PA activities for them. PA requests must originate from the prescriber, and only the prescriber should sign the form at the time of PA 
submission. 
I certify that documentation is maintained in my files and the information given is true and accurate for the medication requested, subject to penalty under section 17b-99 of the Connecticut General 
Statutes and sections 17-83k-1-13 and 4a-7, inclusive, of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies. I certify that the client is under my clinic’s/practice’s ongoing care. I certify that I am a 
practitioner and hold a current, unrestricted license that allows me to prescribe medication and that I am enrolled in the CT Medical Assistance Program. 
Prescriber Signature: 
Date:\n