STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Information/Get%20Download%20File/tabid/30/Default.aspx?Filename=pharm_PA_form.pdf&URI=Forms/pharm_PA_form.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-2521 and 
the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended recipient is hereby 
notified that the information is privileged and confidential, and any use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient should contact Gainwell 
Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and destroy the original message. 
Pharmacy PA Form 07/2025 
STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
DRUG/PRODUCT PRIOR AUTHORIZATION REQUEST FORM 
TELEPHONE: 1-866-409-8386 
FAX: 1-866-759-4110 
(This and other PA forms are posted on www.ctdssmap.com and can be accessed by clicking on the pharmacy icon) 
1. Prescriber’s Name (Last, First)
5. Member’s Name (Last, First)
2. Prescriber’s NPI
6. Member’s ID
3. Prescriber’s Phone
7. Member’s Date of Birth (MMDDCCYY)
4. Prescriber’s Fax
9. Drug/Product Requested
10. Strength
11. Quantity
12. Frequency of Dosage/Usage
Please complete only the section(s) that pertains to the type of PA being requested. Incomplete requests will be denied. 
14.
Early Refill
Request 
15.
Non-Preferred Drug/
Product Request
13. Brand Medically Necessary
Request 
Allergic reaction to excipients in 
generic product. Provide clinical symptoms.  
Provide documented chart notes 
A completed federal MedWatch form 
(FDA3500) must be submitted with this request 
when a reported allergic reaction to the generic 
product is the reason for BMN. 
          Therapeutic failure to generic product. 
Provide details of length of trial (all trials must be at 
least 30 days) and  how therapeutic failure was 
determined or defined
Documentation 
must 
be 
maintained 
in 
your files in case 
of 
an 
audit. 
At 
a 
minimum, documentation 
must 
include 
date, 
drug/product 
and 
length 
of trial. 
If 
an 
audit 
cannot 
find 
and 
verify 
documentation, recoupment will be initiated. 
Change in Directions Previous 
Directions 
New Directions 
Last Date of Fill (MM/DD/CCYY) 
Lost /Stolen/Other 
Last Date of Fill (MM/DD/CCYY) 
Documentation of lost, stolen or destroyed 
meds MUST be attached for approval. 
Vacation Supply 
Date of Departure (MM/DD/CCYY) 
Date of Return (MM/DD/CCYY) 
         Intolerance of the preferred agents/products -
Provide specific details, notes, and chart 
16. Optimal Dose Request
Therapeutic failure to Once Daily Dosing - Please provide dosage used, length of time and how therapeutic failure was determined or defined 
Dosing Greater than Once Daily is Medically Necessary - Please provide dosage and frequency used, length of time and why more than once daily dosing 
is medically necessary 
Please Note: Pharmacies should not be contacting prescribers to provide pre-signed PA forms or submitting pre-signed forms for PA, nor should prescribing providers be requesting that 
pharmacies perform PA activities for them. PA requests must originate from the prescriber, and only the prescriber should sign the form at the time of PA submission. 
I certify that documentation is maintained in my files and the information given is true and accurate for the medication requested, subject to penalty under Connecticut Gen. Stat. Section 
17b-99 and Regs. Conn. State Agencies Sections 17-83k-1-3 and 4a –7, inclusive. I certify that the client is under my clinic’s/practice’s ongoing care. I understand that Prior 
Authorizations will not exceed 6 months from date of fill for controlled medications and 1 year for non-controlled medications/products, except for Early Refill Requests, which are valid 
one time only. 
17. Signature/Printed Name/Title of Prescriber*
18. Date (MM/DD/CCYY)
* Mandatory (others may not sign for prescriber). In accordance to mandates set forth in the Affordable Care Act (ACA), providers who order, prescribe,
or refer clients for services must be enrolled in the Connecticut Medical Assistance Program (CMAP). Effective 10/1/2013, any prescriptions or
services provided by a non-enrolled provider will no longer be considered/covered by CMAP.
documentation as to which preferred agents were 
tried, length of time used, and the nature of the 
intolerance including adverse effects
Adverse reaction to the preferred agents - 
Provide specific details, notes and chart 
documentation as to which. preferred were agents 
tried, length of time used, and specific 
information relating to the adverse reaction  
         Inadequate response to the preferred agents/
product - Provide specific details, notes, and chart 
documentation as to which preferred agents were 
tried, length of time used, and nature of 
inadequate response
         Absence of appropriate formulation of 
preferred agents/product - Provide specific details, 
notes, and chart documentation as to why 
formulation of preferred agents are not 
appropriate for this patient 


--- Page 2 ---
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-2521 
and the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended recipient is 
hereby notified that the information is privileged and confidential, and any use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient should contact 
Gainwell Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and destroy the original message. 
Pharmacy PA Form 07/2025 
(Direction Sheet) Informational Only 
No. 
Name 
Description 
1. 
Prescriber’s Name (Last, First) 
Enter the prescribing practitioner’s last name and first name 
2. 
Prescriber’s NPI 
Enter the prescribing practitioner’s National Provider Identification (NPI) number 
3. 
Prescriber’s Phone 
Enter the prescribing practitioner’s phone number where a PA customer service representative can 
contact the practitioner for additional information or clarification, if necessary 
4. 
Prescriber’s Fax 
Enter the prescribing practitioner’s fax number where a PA customer service representative can 
contact the practitioner for additional information or clarification, if necessary 
5. 
Member’s Name (Last, First) 
Enter the member’s name as it appears on the member’s CONNECT Card or as obtained from the 
Automated Eligibility Verification System (AEVS) 
6. 
Member’s ID 
Enter the member’s 9-digit identification number as it appears on the member’s CONNECT 
Card or as obtained from the Automated Eligibility Verification System (AEVS) 
7. 
Member’s Date of Birth (MMDDCCYY) 
Enter the member’s date of birth in MM/DD/CCYY format 
8. 
Pharmacy’s Fax (Removed) 
Enter the pharmacy’s fax number, if known (Removed) 
9. 
Drug/Product Requested 
Enter the drug/product for which the Prior Authorization is being requested (brand/generic) 
10. 
Strength 
Enter the strength of the drug in milligrams 
11. 
Quantity 
Enter the quantity of the drug/product being prescribed 
12. 
Frequency of Dosing/Usage 
Enter the dosing/usage frequency 
13. 
Brand Medically Necessary Request 
Provide the justification for the brand medically necessary request: 
• For allergic reaction – the prescriber must indicate the clinical symptoms of the reaction and
submit a completed MedWatch form (FDA 3500) with the BMN PA request
• For therapeutic failure – the prescriber must explain the number and length of trials of
generic medication/product and how therapeutic failure was determined or defined
14. 
Early Refill Request 
Provide the justification for the early refill request: 
• For change in dose – the prescriber must provide the previous frequency of dosing/usage, as
well as the new frequency of dosing/usage to justify the increased utilization
• For lost/stolen/other – the prescriber must document the Last Date of Fill as well as
documentation of the lost or destroyed medication/product
o Appropriate written documentation for lost medication/product can be: insurance
report, police report, letter from the prescriber or pharmacist on formal company
letterhead explaining the extenuating circumstance, record of admittance to an
institutional facility such as a hospital, record of arrest or incarceration during the
time in question, etc.
o Documentation for destroyed medication/product can be a fire marshal’s report,
insurance report, police report, or record of an institutional facility destruction of
medication in the presence of a witness, etc.
• For vacation supply – the prescriber must document the date of departure and date of
return for the client in MM/DD/CCYY format.
Only one early refill authorization will be granted for a specific medication/product for a 
vacation supply every six months with the authorized quantity equal to one refill. 
15. 
Non-Preferred Drug/Product Request 
Provide the justification for the non-preferred drug/product request: 
• For intolerance to preferred agents/products – the prescriber must provide clinical
symptoms of intolerance
• For adverse reaction to preferred agents/products – the prescriber must provide clinical
symptoms of adverse reaction and is asked to complete and submit a MedWatch form to
the FDA (optional)
• For inadequate response to preferred agents/products, absence of appropriate
formulation of preferred agents, or medically necessary/medically appropriate –clinical
documentation must be provided
• Prior authorizations will not exceed 6 months from date of fill for controlled medications
and 1 year for non-controlled medications/products.
16. 
Optimal Dose Request 
Provide the justification for the optimal dose request: 
• For therapeutic failure to once daily dosing – the prescriber must provide clinical
symptoms of response to once daily dosing and how therapeutic failure was determined or
defined
• For medically necessary/medically appropriate – the prescriber must provide clinical
symptoms that justify medical necessity or appropriateness
17. 
Signature of Prescriber 
The prescribing practitioner must sign the PA form; agent’s signature is not acceptable 
18. 
Date (MM/DD/CCYY) 
Enter the date the form was completed, signed, and submitted in MM/DD/CCYY format\n