STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Portals/0/StaticContent/Publications/CT_PT_Guidelines.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
P&T Committee Guidelines for Submission or Presentation 
Members of the public may submit clinical or other relevant information to the P&T Committee for their 
review as a written submission. Members of the public may request an opportunity to speak at the P & 
T Committee meeting to offer public testimony on matters relevant to its agenda items. The guidelines 
are outlined below: 
Written Submissions 
Clinical or other relevant information must be submitted at least 2 weeks prior to the applicable 
meeting either electronically or by hardcopy mail to the corresponding address below. Material 
received after the submission deadline will not be distributed or considered by Committee members. 
Electronic copies are preferred, but either form of submission is acceptable. Submissions should be as 
brief as possible to allow for successful electronic distribution to Committee members. For example, 
executive summaries are preferred over full monographs with package inserts. The Committee 
chairperson (or designee) will distribute submitted materials to Committee members. 
Public Testimony 
Individuals who would like to speak at a P & T Committee meeting must submit a written document to 
the Committee at least 2 weeks prior to the applicable meeting at which they wish to speak. The 
written document must indicate that they would like to speak at the meeting and outline the subject 
matter to be covered. Any supplemental materials that need to be distributed to the Committee 
members must be attached to the request. No materials can be distributed during the P & T 
Committee meetings by a speaker.  
If the request is sent electronically, the subject line should contain the following phrase:  Request to 
speak at P & T meeting on ‘date in MM/DD/YY format’  If the request is sent by mail, the lower left 
hand side of the envelope should contain the following phrase:  Attention – Public Testimony 
Request 
At least 1 week prior to the scheduled meeting, the Committee chairperson (or designee) will notify 
those individuals offering testimony with the maximum amount of time allowed for their public 
testimony and an approximate time for their appearance at the meeting. 
The first portion of each Committee meeting will be designated as the public portion of the meeting. It 
may be necessary for the Committee Chairperson to limit speakers’ presentations to a maximum of 
three (3) minutes, depending on the number of individuals who wish to speak at a particular meeting 
and the number of items on the agenda for that meeting. Questioning by Committee members after 
speakers' presentations may be permitted at the discretion of the Chairperson and will not be counted 
toward the maximum allotted time for a speaker’s presentation.  
Speakers will state their names and identify the company, group, or organization they represent, and 
any financial disclosures pertinent to their presentation. Only one speaker per company, group or 
organization is permitted.  
Submit mailed materials to: 
Gainwell Technologies 
PDL Coordinator  
10 Waterside Drive, Suite 105  
Farmington, CT  06032  
Submit electronic materials to:  
ConnecticutPDLQuestions@gainwelltechnologies.com\n