STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Information/Get%20Download%20File/tabid/30/Default.aspx?Filename=Opioid_PA_Form.pdf&URI=Forms/Opioid_PA_Form.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-
2521 and the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended 
recipient is hereby notified that the information is privileged and confidential, and any use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient 
should contact Gainwell Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and destroy the original message. 
Opioid PA Form 9/2022 
Page 1 of 1 
Please Note: Pharmacies should not be contacting prescribers to provide pre-signed PA forms or submitting pre-signed forms for PA, nor should prescribing 
providers be requesting that pharmacies perform PA activities for them. PA requests must originate from the prescriber, and only the prescriber should sign 
the form at the time of PA submission. 
I certify that documentation is maintained in my files and the information given is true and accurate for the medication requested, subject to penalty under 
section 17b-99 of the Connecticut General Statutes and sections 17-83k-1-13 and 4a-7, inclusive, of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies. 
I certify that the client is under my clinic’s/practice’s ongoing care. I certify that I am a practitioner and hold a current, unrestricted license that allows 
me to prescribe medication and that I am enrolled in the CT Medical Assistance Program. 
Prescriber Signature:  
Date: 
STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
TELEPHONE: 1-866-409-8386 
FAX: 1-866-759-4110  
(This and other PA forms are posted on www.ctdssmap.com and can be accessed by clicking on the pharmacy icon) 
CT Medical Assistance Program 
Opioid Prior Authorization (PA) Request Form 
To Be Completed By Prescriber 
Prescriber Information 
Patient Information 
Prescriber’s NPI: 
Patient Medicaid ID Number: 
Prescriber Name: 
Patient Name: 
Phone #: ( 
) 
Patient DOB: 
/ 
/ 
Fax #: ( 
) 
Primary ICD Diagnosis Code: 
Prescription Information 
Drug Requested: 
Dose/frequency: 
□New therapy
□Continuation
Expected Duration: 
This form must be completed by the prescribing provider. If the form is missing information, the PA will not be 
processed. 
Clinical Information 
Is the patient 12 years of age or older? 
□Yes
□No
Does the patient have any of the following diagnoses: 1) cancer-associated pain syndrome, 2) sickle 
cell pain syndrome, 3) severe arthritis, 4) post-traumatic pain syndrome, 5) renal colic, 6) 
pancreatitis, 7) avascular necrosis, 8) spinal compression fracture(s), or 9) painful cutaneous 
ulcers/wounds 
□Yes
□No
Do you attest to all of the following factors or conditions concerning this patient: 
•
non-opioid alternatives are either inappropriate or have not been effective without
concurrent opioid therapy
•
an initial 7-day prescription has already been given, the patient reassessed, and a decision
made that ongoing opioid treatment is medically necessary
•
the patient has not previously sustained and survived an opioid overdose and does not have
untreated opioid use disorder
•
the CT Prescription Monitoring Program has been checked and a risk assessment for opioid
misuse, diversion, and addiction has been done
•
the patient does not have known severe respiratory depression/hypercarbia likely to be
worsened using opioid therapy
□Yes
□No
If you answered 'NO' to any of the questions above, a Letter of Medical Necessity (LMN) must be reviewed for 
consideration. Please provide all relevant information relating to the medical necessity (see Conn. Gen. Stat § 17b-259b(a)) 
of a Short Acting Opioid or Long Acting Opioid for this patient. Submit request, via email, to rx.lmn@ct.gov.  
If you answered 'YES' to all of the questions above, please fax the completed form to the Gainwell Technologies Pharmacy 
PA Assistance Center at the number listed at the top of this form.\n