STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Portals/0/StaticContent/Publications/CAPS.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
 
© 2025 Gainwell Technologies. All rights reserved. 1 | P a g e  
 
Cytokine and CAM Antagonists: CAPs Agents 
Utilization Management Criteria 
 
Therapeutic 
Class:  
 
Cytokine and CAM Antagonists: CAPs Agents 
Non-Preferred 
Agents: 
Kineret (anakinra), Ilaris (canakinumab), Arcalyst (rilonacept) 
 
Preferred Agents: 
None 
Implementation 
Date: 
 
1/1/2026 
Prepared For: 
CT Medicaid 
PDL Status: 
Non-preferred Agents 
Background: 
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS) is a group of 
autoinflammatory conditions that vary in severity. These conditions from least 
to most severe include familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS), 
Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS), and neonatal multisystem inflammatory 
disease (NOMID) also known as chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and 
articular syndrome (CINCA). Genetic mutations encoding cryopyrin cause an 
increased production of interleukin-1β leading to proinflammatory 
consequences. The CAPS agents include anakinra, canakinumab, and 
rilonacept, which target interleukin-1 to reduce its activity. Anakinra is an IL-1 
receptor antagonist; canakinumab is a recombinant antihuman IL-1β 
monoclonal antibody that prevents human IL-1β from binding to its receptor; 
rilonacept is a recombinant cytokine trap that binds both IL-1α and IL-1β and 
prevents binding to receptors.  
 
In the treatment of CAPS, both canakinumab and rilonacept are approved for 
treatment of FCAS and MWS; canakinumab has approval for use in children as 
young as 4 years, and rilonacept is approved for use in children 12 years and 
older. Anakinra is approved for treatment of NOMID. Each agent has additional 
unique indications such as anakinra’s indication for treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) and canakinumab for treatment of gout flares. The 2015 practice 
parameter from the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology 
(AAAAI) recommends any of the 3 agents for CAPS and does not specify one 
agent over another for use in a particular type of CAPS. An advantage of 
anakinra over the other agents is its availability as a prefilled syringe. Both 
canakinumab and rilonacept are available as single-dose vials, and rilonacept 
requires reconstitution, which may be a hindrance to adherence or lead to 
inappropriate administration. All agents require subcutaneous administration; 
however, canakinumab is dosed every 8 weeks which may be an advantage 
over the weekly frequency of rilonacept and daily administration of anakinra. 
Increased monitoring of anakinra adverse events is required in patients with 
renal impairment. Close monitoring of adverse events and drug concentration 
levels of agents with a narrow therapeutic window may be required when 
canakinumab and rilonacept are used with certain CYP450 substrates.  
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
© 2025 Gainwell Technologies. All rights reserved. 2 | P a g e  
 
 
Table 1. Cytokine and CAM Antagonists: CAPS Agents 
Generic Name 
Brand 
Name 
Approved 
Indications 
Route of 
Administration 
Biosimilar 
Availability 
Anakinra 
Kineret® 
RA, NOMID, DIRA 
Subcutaneous 
injection 
N 
Canakinumab 
Ilaris® 
FCAS, MWS, 
TRAPS, 
HIDS/MKD, FMF, 
Still’s disease, 
Gout flares 
Subcutaneous 
injection 
N 
Rilonacept 
Arcalyst® 
FCAS, MWS, 
DIRA, RP 
Subcutaneous 
injection 
N 
 Abbreviations: DIRA, deficiency of Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist; FCAS, familial cold auto-inflammatory syndrome;  FMF, 
familial Mediterranean fever; HIDS/MKD, hyperimmunoglobulin; MWS, Muckle-Wells Syndrome; NOMID, neonatal multisystem 
inflammatory disease; RA. rheumatoid arthritis; RP, recurrent pericarditis; TRAPS, TNF receptor associated periodic syndrome. 
All authorizations must be prescribed in accordance with FDA approved labeling. Use of samples 
to initiate therapy does not meet step therapy and/or continuation of therapy prior authorization 
requirements. Prior therapies will be verified through pharmacy claims and/or submitted chart 
notes 
Initial Therapy – One of the following must be met: 
• 
Claim is for a preferred agent OR 
Criteria for Kineret: 
• 
Prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist, hematologist or any other specialist 
familiar with the treated disease state AND 
• 
Documented diagnosis of deficiency of Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA) (confirmed by 
genetic testing biallelic pathogenic variants in IL 1 RN gene) OR  
• 
Documented diagnosis of Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease OR 
• 
For a documentation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA): 
o 
Participant is age 18 years or older AND  
o 
Patient has had an adequate trial (30 days) of DMARD therapy, including a TNF inhibitor 
AND 
• 
Not used in combination with another targeted immunomodulator 
Evidence directly comparing the CAPS agents is limited. Randomized, non-
randomized, and observational studies of individual agents have demonstrated 
improvement in clinical and laboratory outcomes with all 3 agents. Continued 
clinical response with has been demonstrated for up to 3 years with 
canakinumab, for up to 1.5 years with rilonacept, and for 5 years with anakinra. 
Infection is a common side effect for all 3 agents. Canakinumab appears to 
have less frequency of injection-site reactions, and rilonacept may increase 
lipid levels. Canakinumab can cross the placenta; therefore, the use of live 
vaccines may need to be delayed in infants.  
 
Due to the differences in multiple, labeled indications, formulations, frequency 
of dosing, required dose adjustments based on renal impairment, and drug 
interactions, the choice of treatment of CAPS should be individualized. 
Therefore, preference of one agent over the other cannot be generalized. 
Given that the existing guideline does not place preference of one agent over 
another for use in CAPS, preferred drugs list status may remain with the most 
cost-effective agents.   
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
© 2025 Gainwell Technologies. All rights reserved. 3 | P a g e  
 
Criteria for Arcalyst: 
• 
Prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist, hematologist or any other specialist 
familiar with the treated disease state AND 
• 
Documented diagnosis of DIRA (confirmed by genetic testing biallelic pathogenic variants in IL 1 
RN gene) AND 
o 
Patient documented weight is 10 kg or more 
o 
Utilization is for the maintenance of remission of DIRA following previous treatment with 
Kineret (documentation required of trial) 
OR 
• 
Patient aged 12 years or older and ONE of the following:  
o 
Documented diagnosis of CAPS OR 
o 
Documented diagnosis of recurrent pericarditis (a second instance of pericarditis after 
having no symptoms for at least four weeks) AND 
• 
Not used in combination with another targeted immunomodulator 
Criteria for Ilaris:  
• 
Prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist, hematologist or any other specialist 
familiar with the treated disease state AND 
• 
Documented diagnosis of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and both of the following:  
o 
Patient age 2 years or older 
o 
Adequate trial of tocilizumab or documented adverse event/adverse reaction or 
contraindication to tocilizumab (30 days) OR 
• 
Documented diagnosis of CAPS and patient age 4 years or older OR 
• 
Documented diagnosis of period fever syndromes (e.g., FMF, TRAPS, HIDS/MKD) in patients 
aged 2 years and older OR  
• 
Documented diagnosis of adult-onset stills disease in patients aged 18 years and older OR  
• 
Documented diagnosis of gout and documented contraindication, intolerance or inadequate 
response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), colchicine or when repeated courses 
of corticosteroids are not appropriate 
Initial PA length: 1 year 
Continuation Therapy: Documented compliance on current therapy regimen AND Documentation of 
continued clinical benefit 
Continuation Length: 1 year 
References: 
1. Drugs@FDA: FDA Approved D rug Products. Accessed June 2025. 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/daf/  
2. DailyMed: National Library of Medicine. Accessed June 2025. 
https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/index.cfm 
3. Kuemmerle-Deschner JB, Gautam R, George AT, Raza S, Lomax KG, Hur P. Systematic literature 
review of efficacy/effectiveness and safety of current therapies for the treatment of cryopyrin-
associated periodic syndrome, hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome and tumour necrosis factor 
receptor-associated periodic syndrome. RMD Open. 2020 Jul;6(2):e001227.  
4. Arnold DD, Yalamanoglu A, Boyman O. Systematic Review of Safety and Efficacy of IL-1-Targeted 
Biologics in Treating Immune-Mediated Disorders. Front Immunol. 2022 Jul 6;13:888392.  
5. Romano M, Arici ZS, Piskin D, Alehashemi S, Aletaha D, Barron K, Benseler S, Berard RA, Broderick  
6. L, Dedeoglu F, Diebold M, Durrant K, Ferguson P, Foell D, Hausmann JS, Jones OY, Kastner D, 
Lachmann HJ, Laxer RM, Rivera D, Ruperto N, Simon A, Twilt M, Frenkel J, Hoffman HM, de Jesus 
AA, Kuemmerle-Deschner JB, Ozen S, Gattorno M, Goldbach-Mansky R, Demirkaya E. The 2021 


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
© 2025 Gainwell Technologies. All rights reserved. 4 | P a g e  
 
EULAR/American College of Rheumatology Points to Consider for Diagnosis, Management and 
Monitoring of the Interleukin-1 Mediated Autoinflammatory Diseases: Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic 
Syndromes, Tumour Necrosis Factor Receptor-Associated Periodic Syndrome, Mevalonate Kinase 
Deficiency, and Deficiency of the Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2022 
Jul;74(7):1102-1121. 
7. Bonilla FA, Khan DA, Ballas ZK, et al: Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters, representing the 
American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology; the American College of Allergy, Asthma & 
Immunology; and the Joint Council of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Practice parameter for the 
diagnosis and management of primary immunodeficiency. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015;136(5):1186-
205.e1-78.  
 
Revision History 
 
 
 
Date 
Version 
Revisions 
11/7/2025 
V1 
Document approved by DSS\n