STATE: Connecticut\nURL: https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/Information/Get%20Download%20File/tabid/30/Default.aspx?Filename=Spravato_PA_pharmacy.pdf&URI=Forms/Spravato_PA_pharmacy.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.ctdssmap.com/CTPortal/?tabname=Pharmacy+Information\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Please Note: Pharmacies should not be contacting prescribers to provide pre-signed PA forms or submitting pre-signed forms for PA, nor should prescribing 
providers be requesting that pharmacies perform PA activities for them. PA requests must originate from the prescriber, and only the prescriber should sign the 
form at the time of PA submission. 
I certify that documentation is maintained in my files and the information given is true and accurate for the medication requested, subject to penalty under section
17b-99 of the Connecticut General Statutes and sections 17-83k-1-13 and 4a-7, inclusive, of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies. I certify that the client is
under my clinic’s/practice’s ongoing care. I certify that I am a practitioner and hold a current, unrestricted license that allows me to prescribe medication and that I
am enrolled in the CT Medical Assistance Program. 
Prescriber Signature: 
Date: 
STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
           TELEPHONE: 1-866-409-8386  FAX: 1-866-759-4110 
(This and other PA forms are posted on www.ctdssmap.com and can be accessed by clicking on the pharmacy icon) 
CT Medical Assistance Program 
SPRAVATO Pharmacy Prior Authorization (PA) Request Form 
To Be Completed by Prescriber 
Who is Administering Only (NOT DISPENSING) 
Prescriber Information 
Patient Information 
Prescriber’s NPI: 
Patient Medicaid ID Number: 
Prescriber Name: 
Patient Name: 
Phone #: ( 
) 
Patient DOB: 
Fax #: ( 
) 
Primary ICD Diagnosis Code: 
SPRAVATO Prescription Information 
Dose/frequency: 
Requested Start Date: 
□New therapy
□Continuation
Expected Duration: 
This form must be completed by the prescribing provider. If the form is missing information, the PA will not be 
processed. In completing and submitting this form for prior-authorization, I attest that I am registered in the 
Spravato Risk Evaluation and Mitigating Strategy (REMS) program, and legally authorized to prescribe and 
administer Spravato. If you are not REMS certified, you are not allowed to prescribe this drug. 
Clinical Information 
1. 
Is the patient 18 years of age or older? 
□Yes
□No
2 
Has the patient experienced treatment-resistant depression (TRD) 
□Yes
□No
3. 
Has the patient experienced treatment failure (at least a 4-week trial) or adverse effects from the 
use of a SSRI and one other antidepressant (Non-SSRI)? 
□Yes
□No
4. 
Has the patient experienced an inadequate response (defined as at least four weeks of therapy for 
antidepressants) or adverse reaction to one of the below mentioned antidepressant augmentation 
strategies or does the patient have a contraindication to all of the below mentioned augmentation 
strategies: 
1.
second-generation antipsychotic
2.
lithium
3.
a second antidepressant from a different class
4.
thyroid hormone
□Yes
□No
5. 
Is this a continuation of Spravato started in an inpatient unit for treatment of acute suicidal 
ideation? 
□Yes
□No
•
If you answered ‘NO’ to any of the questions 1 through 4 above, and also answered ‘NO’ to question 5, this form and a Letter of
Medical Necessity (LMN) must be reviewed by CT BHP for consideration. Please provide all relevant information relating to the
medical necessity (see Conn. Gen. Stat § 17b-259b(a)) of Spravato for this patient. Submit request to CT BHP via fax, to 866-434-
7681.
•
If you answered 'YES' to questions 1 through 4 above, or answered ‘YES’ to questions 1 and 5, please fax the completed form to
the Gainwell Technologies Pharmacy PA Assistance Center at the number above for processing.
This form (and attachments) contains protected health information (PHI) for Gainwell Technologies and is covered by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. § 2510-2521 and the Standards for Privacy 
of Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which is intended only for the use of prior authorization. Any unintended recipient is hereby notified that the information is privileged and 
confidential, and any use, disclosure, or reproduction of this information is prohibited. Any unintended recipient should contact Gainwell Technologies by telephone at (860) 255-3900 or by e-mail immediately and 
destroy the original message.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Spravato Pharmacy Prior Authorization Form 9/2022\n