Skip to content
Press Release: Verana Health Merges with COTA to Dramatically Expand Scale, Velocity, and Depth of Real-World Data Offerings Across Oncology and Other Specialties Learn More
✕
Clinicians
Life Sciences
Research
Partners
Company
Products
Solutions
Contact Us
Neovascular AMD Real-World Data
Neovascular AMD Can Cause Rapid and Severe Vision Loss.
Qdata® Can Help Advance Treatments for These Patients.

Qdata nAMD (neovascular age-related macular degeneration) is an exclusive dataset of 1.5M+ patients with a detailed view of the patient journey, disease progression, and anti-VEGF treatments.

Download Datasheet
Talk to a Qdata Expert
About Qdata Neovascular AMD

Neovascular AMD (nAMD) is a condition that mainly affects elderly populations and can cause vision impairment and even total vision loss. This condition occurs when vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) causes abnormal blood vessels to develop in the back of the eye.

This condition is characterized by three different stages. Early stages of nAMD may not show any symptoms, making it harder to diagnose and treat when the condition first appears. Later stages, however, present more obvious symptoms as the disease progresses, such as drastic vision changes, difficulties seeing at night, blank spots, and blurriness.

Real-world nAMD data is vital in treating patients with this condition. With Verana Health’s Qdata nAMD, researchers and clinicians can work to better understand the patient journey, disease progression and anti-VEGF treatment efficacy.

Verana Health is the exclusive real-world data and analytics partner of the American Academy of Ophthalmology IRIS® Registry (Intelligent Research in Sight). Both structured and unstructured data from EHRs across the US are curated to generate Qdata nAMD, a research-ready module to generate real-world evidence for life sciences companies.

Learn More About Qdata
Exclusive nAMD Insights

Only found here from the IRIS Registry® (Intelligent Research in Sight)

Detailed Understanding of Disease Progression

Key variables including visual acuity and CST

Timely View of Anti-VEGF Treatments

Track usage and outcomes

By the Numbers
0M+

Total de-identified patients with nAMD*

0 Years

Average length of follow-up for nAMD patients

*Defined as patients >=50 with >=1 ICD-10 code for nAMD (codes H35.32*) from January 2016 to April 2026, with a corresponding CPT or HCPCS code on the same date as the diagnosis.

Meet with a Qdata Expert or Request a Data Count

Schedule Now
Key Variables in Neovascular AMD Disease Research

Qdata nAMD can provide curated variables extracted from EHR data. These variables can then be utilized based on your neovascular AMD research needs.

Visual Acuity

Visual acuity (VA) measures how sharp your vision is at a distance. It is usually tested by reading an eye chart. VA is an outcome measure found in EHR semi-structured fields.

Central Subfield Thickness (CST)

This variable measures the thickness of the central part of the retina, also called the foveal, typically determined using optical coherence tomographic (OCT) imaging. CST is found in the EHR semi-structured fields.

Unstructured Data Enables Deeper Understanding

Qdata modules consist of carefully curated datasets that are readily available for research purposes, enabling the generation of nAMD real-world evidence (RWE).

Verana Health applies clinician-informed algorithms to unstructured EHR data at scale to help extract key information on visual acuity, CST, anti-VEGF procedure details, and more, which can then be analyzed across large populations in a reliable manner.

This can give life sciences companies unprecedented insights to better understand treatment patterns and outcomes, run comparative effectiveness studies, monitor market uptake, and more.

0%
of Medical Data Remains Unstructured
See Our Data Source 
Learn About Qdata Anti-VEGF Market Tracker

Qdata Anti-VEGF Market Tracker tracks real-world usage that is refreshed monthly

Learn More
Read More About Qdata nAMD

Check out related studies, blogs and news related to our work with nAMD research data.

Press
Real-world Studies Show Benefits of Faricimab in neovascular AMD
October 2023
→
Research
Early Treatment Patterns and Outcomes in Patients with Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration Initiating Faricimab: the FARETINA-AMD Study
April 2023
→
News
Verana Health to Present Findings of Studies Using AAO IRIS Registry Data to Advance Insights into Real World Outcomes in Treating AMD
November 2022
→
Talk to a Qdata Expert

Take a minute to submit your contact information and one of our team members will reach out to you.

San Francisco | New York | Knoxville
Search

© 2026 Verana Health. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy

Cookie Policy

This website uses tracking technologies to enable our website functionalities, to enhance user experience or to analyze performance and traffic. We may also share or sell information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. This allows us to perform targeted advertising and to select ads and content that will be more relevant to you. Below you can Accept Default Settings, Reject All trackers, or exercise your right to opt -in or -out of the sale of personal data, targeted advertising, profiling, and the processing of sensitive data by clicking on “Manage Your Privacy Choices.” For more details on the data we process and how to exercise your rights, see our Privacy Policy Cookie PolicyCookie List
Opt out of sale of personal data and Targeted Advertising Reject All Accept Cookies