STATE: Arizona\nURL: https://azahcccs.gov/Shared/Downloads/ACOM/PolicyFiles/100/111.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://azahcccs.gov/Members/Pharmacy/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 1 of 11 
 
 
111 – AHCCCS PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS (P&T) COMMITTEE 
 
EFFECTIVE DATES: 
04/16/19, 10/30/19, 09/01/21, 04/15/22, 08/13/24, 03/28/25 
 
APPROVAL DATES: 
03/14/19, 10/01/19, 07/15/21, 02/02/22, 06/03/24, 03/11/25 
I. 
PURPOSE 
 
The AHCCCS Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) Committee is advisory to AHCCCS and is responsible for 
evaluating scientific evidence of the relative safety, efficacy, effectiveness, and clinical appropriateness 
of prescription drugs.  The P&T Committee shall make recommendations to AHCCCS on the 
development and maintenance of a statewide drug list.  The P&T Committee members shall not 
participate in matters in which they have an actual or potential conflict of interest.  The P&T 
Committee members shall evaluate information regarding individual drugs and therapeutic classes of 
drugs in an impartial manner emphasizing the best clinical evidence and cost effectiveness consistent 
with Arizona Executive Order  2018-06.  
 
II. DEFINITIONS   
 
Refer to the AHCCCS Contract and Policy Dictionary for common terms found in this Policy. 
 
For purposes of this Policy the following terms are defined as: 
 
AHCCCS DRUG LIST 
A list of medications and related products supported by current
evidence-based medicine. The primary purpose of the AHCCCS 
Drug List is to encourage the use of safe, effective, clinically
appropriate medications that are also cost-effective. 
BUSINESS DAY 
A business day means a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, or Friday unless a legal holiday falls on Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday then that day shall not 
be considered a business day. 
AHCCCS PHARMACY AND 
THERAPEUTICS (P&T)  
COMMITTEE 
Members of the P&T Committee are appointed by the Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) of AHCCCS or by a designee. 
EFFECTIVENESS 
The actual effects of a drug treatment under real life conditions. 
EFFICACY 
The ability of a treatment to achieve the desired results under 
ideal study conditions. 
EVIDENCE-BASED 
MEDICINE 
The judicious use of the best scientific evidence including clinical
expertise and member values when making decisions about 
healthcare.  The scientific evidence is limited to peer- reviewed 
articles in medical journals published in the United States. 


--- Page 2 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 2 of 11 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
The Executive Session shall be held for the purpose of reviewing 
presented clinical information and proprietary financial 
information that pertains to preferred and non-preferred drug
recommendations.  The Executive Sessions are confidential and 
not open to the public. 
QUORUM 
The minimum number of Pharmacy and Therapeutic (P&T) 
Committee members who must be present in order for the P&T 
Committee to hold a P&T Committee meeting and conduct 
business.  A quorum shall be 50% of the membership plus one.
Because the P&T Committee is comprised of 20 members, 11 
members must be present to constitute a quorum. Members 
who are employed by AHCCCS shall be considered for the
purposes of determining a Quorum. 
SIMPLE MAJORITY 
A Simple Majority is the minimum number of the Pharmacy and 
Therapeutic (P&T) Committee members that is greater than 50%.
With respect to approving a motion, a simple majority of the 
quorum present at the P&T Committee meeting must vote in 
favor of the motion in order for the motion to be approved.
Members who are employed by AHCCCS shall not have voting 
rights and shall not be considered part of the simple majority. 
 
III. POLICY 
 
The P&T Committee shall be comprised of individuals as specified in this Policy.  
 
A. COMPOSITION 
 
1. AHCCCS employees shall be representatives consisting of: 
a. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) or designee, 
b. Office of Individual and Family Affair (OIFA) Administrator or designee, and 
c. Pharmacy Administrator or designee. 
 
2. Health care providers with active Arizona licenses in good standing and registered with AHCCCS 
(as applicable to the type of licensure) consisting of individuals from the following disciplines 
and/or specialties (maximum of 10 members in this category): 
a. Family practice, 
b. Internal medicine, 
c. Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
d. Pain management, 
e. Pediatrics, 
f. 
Pharmacist, 
g. Psychiatry, and 
h. Registered Nurse. 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 3 of 11 
 
 
3. Public representatives consisting of: 
a. Inter-Tribal Council of Arizona (ITCA), 
b. Medicaid member, and 
c. Medicaid member advocate. 
 
4. The AHCCCS Contractors and Tribal Regional Behavioral Health Authority (TRBHA) consisting of: 
a. Four Managed Care Organization (MCO) Medical Directors or Pharmacy Directors or their 
designees, and 
b. Two TRBHA Medical Directors or Pharmacy Directors or their designees. 
 
B. THE P&T COMMITTEE MEMBER APPOINTMENT PROCESS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
  
1. The P&T Committee members who are employed by AHCCCS shall serve continuously and are 
non-voting members. AHCCCS employees are counted for the purposes of determining 
whether or not a quorum has been met in order to proceed with the P&T Committee meeting.  
The remaining P&T Committee members shall be appointed by the AHCCCS CMO or designee 
for a two-year term with the option of term renewal.  
 
2. The recruitment and selection of the P&T Committee member vacancies: 
a. The AHCCCS Pharmacy website provides instructions for completion of the P&T 
Committee Application for Appointment and the Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form, 
Attachment A, to be submitted to AHCCCS for consideration, and 
b. Factors considered in AHCCCS’ selection of the P&T Committee members include but are  
not limited to the position for which they are applying, Arizona Medicaid experience, and 
the submitted Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form. 
 
3. AHCCCS has the sole discretion to appoint the P&T Committee members and may terminate 
the appointment of any member at any time. 
 
4. The P&T Committee members shall not: 
a. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly involved with or represent a 
pharmaceutical manufacturer, 
b. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a Pharmacy Benefits 
Management (PBM) company, or 
c. Receive payments or compensation from the pharmaceutical industry in excess of the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Open Payments database US Mean, 
including the Specialty Mean, if available, for the most recent year. 
 
5. Receive payments or compensation from the pharmaceutical industry in excess of the Centers 
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Open Payments database US Mean, including the 
Specialty Mean, if available, for the most recent year.  Before a P&T Committee member 
participates in their first P&T Committee meeting, the P&T Committee members shall submit 
the completed Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form and disclose any potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to their participation in the P&T Committee business. 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 4 of 11 
 
 
The P&T Committee members shall update their Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form no less 
than 12 months from the date of first completion, and additionally no later than 30 calendar 
days from any change to the information in the existing Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure Form.  If 
a P&T Committee meeting takes place before a member can submit the form, the member 
shall notify the P&T Committee of such conflict at the start of such meeting.  The Form shall be 
submitted to AHCCCS at: AHCCCSPharmacyDept@azahcccs.gov. 
 
6. The P&T Committee members shall recuse themselves from any discussion, recommendation, 
or voting with respect to an individual drug and/or entire drug class if they have any potential 
conflicts of interest concerning the individual drug or drug class under review. 
 
7. The P&T Committee members shall complete the annual conflict-of-interest training conducted by 
AHCCCS. 
 
C. MEETINGS 
 
1. The AHCCCS CMO or designee, is the P&T Committee's Chairperson and is responsible for 
setting meeting agendas.  The P&T Committee Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and 
shall facilitate discussion by the P&T Committee members. 
 
2. The P&T Committee shall meet virtually at least three times annually.  Other P&T Committee 
meetings may be scheduled at the discretion of AHCCCS.  Advance notice shall be provided of 
all meetings as further detailed in this Policy. 
 
3. With the exception of the Executive Session portion of the P&T Committee meeting, the P&T 
Committee meetings are open to the public.  The P&T Committee meetings and agendas are 
made available on the AHCCCS Pharmacy website.  
 
4. The Executive Session of the meeting shall be held for the purpose of reviewing proprietary 
financial information that pertains to preferred and non-preferred drug recommendations.  
The Executive Session is confidential and is not open to the public.  The P&T Committee 
Chairperson is responsible for initiating the Executive Session, which shall be limited to the 
P&T Committee members and the AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor staff.  Executive 
Sessions are not regulated by ARS 38-431.03. 
 
5. The P&T Committee shall: 
a. Review the AHCCCS Drug List approximately every two years or on an as needed  basis, 
b. Review biosimilars in accordance with the AMPM Policy 310-V,  
c. Review new chemical entity drugs on or about 180 days from the date the drug is 
commercially available,   
d. Make recommendations to AHCCCS on the grandfathering status of each non-preferred 
drug for each therapeutic class reviewed by the P&T Committee, and 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 5 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 5 of 11 
 
 
e. Respond to requests for medication additions, deletions, or changes to the AHCCCS Drug 
List submitted to AHCCCS.  Requests for medication additions, deletions, or changes to the 
AHCCCS Drug  List shall be submitted to the AHCCCS Pharmacy Department using the email 
address:  AHCCCSPharmacyDept@azahcccs.gov and shall include the following information: 
i. 
Medication requested (brand name and generic name), 
ii. Dosage forms, strengths, and corresponding costs of the medication  requested, 
iii. Average daily dosage, 
iv. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) indication and accepted off–label use, 
v. Advantages or disadvantages of the medication over currently available products on 
the AHCCCS Drug List, 
vi. Adverse effects reported with the medication, 
vii. Specific monitoring requirements and costs associated with these  requirements, and 
viii. For deletions, a detailed clinical summary for the request which shall also include 
items as specified in this Policy. 
 
6. New formulations of a current medication with the same chemical entity are not reviewed as 
a new drug at the P&T Committee meeting.  
 
7. Drugs solely administered via intravenous infusion are not reviewed at the P&T Committee 
meeting. 
 
8. On or about 60 days prior to the P&T Committee meeting, AHCCCS shall post the expected 
therapeutic classes to be reviewed for non-supplemental and supplemental rebates on the 
AHCCCS website.  The list of therapeutic classes or individual drugs may change at the 
discretion of AHCCCS. 
 
9. On or about 30 days prior to the P&T Committee meeting, the P&T Committee members 
shall be provided clinical information for new drugs and the therapeutic class reviews to be 
discussed at the next meeting.  The clinical information is produced and provided  
to the P&T Committee members by the AHCCCS’ rebate vendor. 
 
10.  A secure username and password may be required to access the clinical materials. 
 
11. On or about seven days prior to the P&T Committee meeting AHCCCS shall: 
a. Post the meeting agenda to the AHCCCS website, and 
b. Provide the following to the P&T Committee members: 
i. 
The agenda, 
ii. Meeting minutes from the prior P&T Committee meeting, 
iii. Approved written public testimony, and 
iv. Other materials as appropriate. 
 
12. If a P&T Committee member is unable to attend a meeting, the member is required to send an 
email notification of the absence as soon as possible prior to the meeting to: 
AHCCCSPharmacyDept@azahcccs.gov. 
 
 
 


--- Page 6 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 6 of 11 
 
 
13. The meeting minutes of the prior P&T Committee meeting will be distributed in advance of the 
subsequent meeting and a formal approval process will be used to amend the minutes, if 
necessary, and approve the minutes at the beginning of each meeting. Approved P&T 
Committee meeting minutes will be posted on the AHCCCS website. 
 
The AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor’s clinical pharmacist and staff shall present clinical 
and financial information to the P&T Committee members.  Clinical information shall be 
presented during the public virtual meeting, and any financial information shall be presented 
in the Executive Session. 
 
14. The Individuals specified in Sections F and G are prohibited from contacting the P&T Committee 
members to discuss individual drugs or therapeutic classes that may be reviewed or are 
scheduled to be reviewed at the P&T Committee meetings.  However, those individuals are 
permitted to register to give oral or written public testimony as specified in Sections F and G. 
 
The Pharmaceutical manufacturers whose representative(s) or other related entities that 
contact the P&T Committee members to discuss individual drugs or therapeutic classes that 
may be reviewed at the P&T Committee meeting shall be prohibited from giving public 
testimony for two years.  Individuals described in Section F that contact the P&T Committee 
members to discuss individual drugs or therapeutic classes that may be reviewed at the P&T 
Committee meeting shall be prohibited from giving public testimony for two years.  
 
15. Approximately 30 days after the P&T meeting date, the following documents shall be posted 
on the AHCCCS website: 
a. The P&T Committee presentation slides, 
b. The P&T Committee recommendation slides, 
c. The prior P&T Committee approved meeting minutes, 
d. Accepted written public testimony, 
e. Preferred Drugs National Drug Code file, and 
f. 
The P&T Committee Meeting Summary Memo. 
 
D. THE P&T SUBCOMMITTEES 
 
1. The P&T Committee Chairperson may designate and appoint P&T subcommittees. 
 
2. A minimum of two P&T Committee members shall serve on each P&T subcommittee. 
 
3. Other persons may participate as designated by the P&T Committee Chairperson. 
 
4. The P&T Subcommittee members shall meet all Conflicts of Interest requirements. 
 
5. No P&T subcommittee shall have authority to amend, alter, or repeal this Policy, adopt any 
action contrary to the P&T Committee, or remove any member or take any action on behalf of 
the P&T Committee or AHCCCS. 
 
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 7 of 11 
 
 
6. Any member of any P&T subcommittee may be removed by the P&T Committee Chairperson 
or AHCCCS whenever the best interests of the P&T Committee or the State will be best 
served by such removal. 
 
E. VOTING AND QUORUM 
 
1. A quorum is necessary for the P&T Committee to hold a meeting and transact business.  A 
minimum of 11 of the 20 P&T Committee members shall be present to constitute a quorum 
to conduct the P&T Committee business. 
 
2. The actions of the P&T Committee shall be transacted by motion, which may be proposed by 
any P&T Committee member in attendance at the meeting.  A member shall attend the 
meeting virtually.  Any P&T Committee actions, including those proposed by the P&T 
Committee Chairperson, shall require a second.  Voting on all motions shall be conducted 
electronically unless a P&T Committee member asks that the role be called and that the vote 
of each P&T Committee member be recorded.  
 
3. The voting P&T Committee members shall have one vote on each matter submitted for a vote 
to the P&T Committee.  The P&T Committee members who are AHCCCS employees are non-
voting members. 
 
4. If a quorum is present to conduct the P&T Committee business, a simple majority of the voting 
P&T Committee members present at the P&T Committee meeting are required to vote in favor 
of a motion for the motion to be accepted and recommended to AHCCCS.  For example, if 12 
P&T Committee members are needed for a quorum, and 17 P&T Committee members are 
present, then eight P&T Committee members who are permitted to vote are required to vote 
in favor of the motion for it to be accepted. 
 
5. For any matter in which a P&T Committee member has been recused from participating or 
acting on any matter, that the P&T Committee member shall not be counted for the purposes 
of determining a quorum, for conducting the P&T Committee meeting, and for determining 
the minimum number of votes necessary to pass a proposal related to any matter for which 
the P&T Committee member has been recused.  Any P&T Committee member who has been 
recused shall not participate in voting with respect to the matter for which the member has 
been recused. 
 
6. The P&T Committee members shall be present virtually to vote on each matter submitted for 
a vote to the members. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 8 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 8 of 11 
 
 
F. PUBLIC TESTIMONY PROVIDED TO THE P&T COMMITTEE BY INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT 
SPECIFIED  
 
1. The Individuals who are not P&T Committee members and who are not specified in Section III 
G are permitted to present testimony to the P&T Committee as public representatives as set 
forth below.  To present testimony, the public representative shall not be directly or indirectly 
employed by, contracted with, or speaking on behalf of pharmaceutical manufacturers, PBMs, 
advocacy organizations/foundations, lobbyists, or subcontractors of these entities.  The public 
representative may provide comments orally at the meeting to the P&T Committee members 
or through written testimony as outlined in this policy.  Individual healthcare representatives, 
including but not limited to Physicians, Nurse Practitioners, and Physician Assistants, shall be 
AHCCCS registered providers. 
 
2. For individual health care providers who receive payments or compensation from 
manufacturers that are listed for the most recent available year in the CMS Open Payments 
database: 
a. Oral testimony is permitted if the most recent payments or compensation received by the 
provider on the CMS Open Payments database are equal to or less than the US Mean or 
the Specialty Mean for the provider,  
b. Written testimony may only be provided when the most recent payments or compensation 
received by the provider are greater than the US Mean or the Specialty Mean but less than 
two times the US Mean or the Specialty Mean whichever is greater, on the CMS Open 
Payments database, and  
c. Testimony will not be permitted for any individual health care provider, who received 
payments or compensation in excess of two times the US Mean or Specialty Mean, 
whichever is greater, as noted in the CMS Open Payments database. 
 
3. Oral Testimony – The Representatives of the public may present oral testimony virtually as set 
below: 
a. The oral testimony shall be presented virtually at all the P&T Committee meetings, 
b. The public representative shall complete and submit the Public Testimony Registration and 
the Conflict-of-Interest Forms no later than 15 business days prior to the meeting.  The 
forms are available on Prime Therapeutics under Arizona located on their website at the 
following link:  https://www.primetherapeutics.com/en/single-state-programs,  
c. The Registration is available on a first-come, first-serve basis and shall be limited to no 
more than 20 total presenters per P&T Committee meeting.  At the discretion of the P&T 
Committee Chairperson, the total number of public representatives who are permitted to 
provide oral testimony may be adjusted based on the P&T Committee meeting agenda and 
time constraints, 
d. The Testimony is limited to one public representative per organization, per drug, even 
when the organization has multiple sites, 
e.  The P&T Committee Chairperson or designee will recognize public representatives in 
alphabetical order of the drugs listed in the therapeutic classes being reviewed, 
f. 
The Public representatives are limited to comments that do not exceed three minutes in 
length per drug, 
                            


--- Page 9 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 9 of 11 
 
 
g. Questions or comments from the P&T Committee for the Representative will be 
entertained by the P&T Committee Chairperson and are not subject to the three-minute 
limit, and 
h. The P&T Committee Chairperson may suspend or elect to not offer the comment process 
for reasons including, but not limited to, speaker noncompliance with the comment 
process, time constraints, and/or quality of the information presented. 
 
4. Written testimony – The Public Representatives may present written testimony as set forth below: 
a. The public representative requesting to provide written testimony shall complete and 
submit the Public Testimony Registration and the Conflict-of-Interest Forms and written 
testimony no later than 15 business days prior to the meeting.  The forms are available on 
Prime Therapeutics under Arizona located on their website at the following link: 
https://www.primetherapeutics.com/en/single-state-programs, and  
b. The written testimony is limited to one individual per organization on each agenda item 
and shall not exceed two pages, single spaced and a font size not less than 12. 
 
G. TESTIMONY PROVIDED TO THE   BY REPRESENTATIVES OF PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS, 
PBMS, AND RELATED ENTITIES 
 
1. The Representatives are individuals who are directly or indirectly employed by, or contracted 
with, or speaking on behalf of pharmaceutical manufacturers, PBMs, advocacy organizations/ 
foundations, lobbyists for these entities, or subcontractors of these entities.  The 
representative may provide comments orally at the meeting to the P&T Committee members 
or through written testimony as outlined in this policy. 
 
2. The Public testimony requests from or on behalf of advocacy organizations, foundations or 
other similar groups, shall be limited to written testimony.  At the discretion of AHCCCS, the 
advocacy organization or foundation or similar groups, may be required to submit the amount 
of grants, funding, or other support that has been received from pharmaceutical 
manufacturers or entities related to pharmaceutical manufacturers.  Public testimony shall not 
be permitted if the requests for the grants, funding, or other supportive funding is not 
submitted or the AHCCCS request is denied by the advocacy organization, foundation or similar 
groups. 
 
3. Oral Testimony – The Representatives may present oral testimony virtually as set forth below: 
a. The oral testimony shall be presented virtually at all of the P&T Committee meetings, 
b. The representative shall complete and submit the Public Testimony Registration Form no 
later than 30 business days prior to the meeting.  The forms are available on Prime 
Therapeutics under Arizona located on their website at the following link:  
https://www.primetherapeutics.com/en/single-state-programs.  Registration is available 
on a first-come, first-serve basis and shall be no more than 20 total presenters per P&T 
Committee meeting.  At the discretion of the P&T Committee Chairperson, the total 
number of representatives who are permitted to provide oral testimony may be adjusted 
based on the P&T Committee meeting agenda and time constraints, 
c. The P&T Committee Chairperson will recognize the representatives by therapeutic class 
under review at the P&T Committee meeting, 
 


--- Page 10 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 10 of 11 
 
 
d. The testimony is limited to one representative per organization, per drug,  
e. The representatives are limited to oral comments that do not exceed three minutes per 
drug, 
f. 
Questions or comments from the P&T Committee for the Representative will be 
entertained by the P&T Committee Chairperson and are not subject to the three-minute 
limit, and 
g. The P&T Committee Chairperson may suspend or elect to not offer the comment process 
for reasons including, but not limited to, speaker noncompliance with the comment 
process, time constraints, and/or quality of the information presented. 
 
4. Written Testimony – The Representatives may present written testimony as set forth below: 
a. The representative shall complete and submit the Testimony Registration Form no later 
than 30 business days prior to the meeting.  The forms are available on the Prime 
Therapeutics under Arizona located on their website at the following link: 
https://www.primetherapeutics.com/en/single-state-programs, 
b. The written testimony will not be permitted for any health care provider, representing a 
pharmaceutical manufacturer, PBM or a related entity, who received payments or 
compensation in excess of two times the US Mean or Specialty Mean, whichever is greater, 
as reported for the most recent available year, on the CMS Open Payments Database 
(openpaymentsdata.cms.gov), 
c. All clinical information submitted shall include a one-page cover sheet that summarizes the 
key points and directs the P&T Committee members to the key areas of the submitted 
information for consideration.  The page number, paragraphs, and line numbers shall be cited,  
d. The written testimony is limited to drugs that are part of therapeutic drug classes or 
individual drugs specified in the meeting agenda, and 
e. The written testimony is restricted to new studies released since the last P&T Committee 
review.  The testimony is limited to randomized double-blinded active control studies, and 
information that is published, or accepted for publication, in a peer-reviewed journal(s).   
The following information will not be accepted: 
i. 
Online publications, 
ii. Poster presentations, 
iii. Placebo controlled, 
iv. Observational, 
v. Open-label and non-randomized studies,  
vi. Product monographs and dossiers, 
vii. The P&T Committee briefs, 
viii. Extensive bibliographies, or 
ix. Similar inclusions. 
 
H. SUPPLEMENTAL REBATE OFFERS 
 
1. The AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor may request supplemental rebate offers from 
manufacturers for therapeutic class drugs, devices or other products scheduled for review  at 
the P&T Committee meetings, upon request from AHCCCS. 
 
 
 


--- Page 11 ---
AHCCCS CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS MANUAL 
CHAPTER 100 – ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
                          111 – Page 11 of 11 
 
 
2. The Manufacturers responding to the request shall submit their offer on the Offer Form 
located on the AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor’s website and within the requested 
timeframe as noted in the P&T Committee manufacturer letter provided by the supplemental 
rebate vendor. 
 
3. The Manufacturers that have a preferred drug/product on the AHCCCS Drug List may submit a 
new dosage formulation as a line item extension using the Arizona Line Item  Extension Form 
located on the AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor’s website. 
 
4. The following documents are also available on the AHCCCS supplemental rebate vendor’s 
website: 
a. The Manufacturer’s Letter Request for Supplemental Rebate Offer, 
b. The Classes and Products to be reviewed, 
c. The P&T Committee Operational Policy, 
d. The Public Testimony Registration Form, and 
e. The Conflict-of-Interest Form. 
 
I. 
CONTRACTS 
 
The P&T Committee shall not enter into contracts but may recommend that AHCCCS enter into 
contracts as necessary or proper to carry out the provisions and purposes of the work of the P&T 
Committee. Such contract(s) include, but are not limited to:  
a. Engagements of independent legal,  
b. Actuarial,  
c. Clinical,  
d. Research, and/or  
e. Other consultants.\n