STATE: Arizona\nURL: https://azahcccs.gov/Shared/Downloads/ACOM/PolicyFiles/100/111a.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://azahcccs.gov/Members/Pharmacy/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
www.azahcccs.gov   
AHCCCS azahcccs.gov 602-417-4000 
801 East Jefferson Street, Phoenix, AZ 85 
ACOM POLICY 111 - ATTACHMENT A – CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE FORM FOR 
POTENTIAL PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS (P&T) COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
 
As detailed in the Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee Operational Policy, the P&T Committee 
members shall not: 
a. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a pharmaceutical manufacturer, 
b. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a Pharmacy Benefits 
Management (PBM) company, or 
c. Receive payments or compensation from the pharmaceutical industry in excess of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Open Payments database US Mean, including the Specialty 
Mean if available, for the most recent year.  
Thus, any individual who meets a, b, or c above is not eligible for serving on the Committee or providing 
external public comment to the Committee.   
INITIAL THE FOLLOWING: 
 
 
 
I am not employed by subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a 
pharmaceutical manufacturer. 
 
 
 
I am not employed by subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a Pharmacy 
Benefits Management (PBM) company. 
 
 
 
 
 
I do not receive payments or compensation from the pharmaceutical industry in excess of 
the US Mean or Specialty Mean general payments for the most recent available data on 
the CMS Open Payments database. 
 
The purpose of this Conflict-of-Interest Disclosure form is to require the P&T Committee member to 
complete this form to affirmatively identify any potential conflicts of interest with respect to matters 
coming before the Committee. 
 
The P&T Committee members shall disclose any financial relationship, affiliation, or other relationship 
with any organization (that may have a direct or indirect interest in business that may be considered by 
the P&G Committee) prior to serving on the P&G Committee and at other timeframes described in ACOM 
Policy 111. 
 
A financial relationship may include, but is not limited to:  
a. Being employed by,  
b. Being on retainer,  
c. Having research or honoraria paid by, or  
d. Receiving other forms of remuneration from any organization that may have a direct or indirect 
interest in business that may be considered by the Committee.  
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
www.azahcccs.gov   
AHCCCS azahcccs.gov 602-417-4000 
801 East Jefferson Street, Phoenix, AZ 85 
An affiliation other than one that is financial in nature may include holding a position on an advisory 
committee or some other role or benefit to a supporting organization.   
   
The existence of such financial relationships or affiliation does not necessarily constitute a conflict of 
interest and will not preclude an individual from participating as a Committee member. 
 
DISCLOSURES  
 
☐   I do not have a current or recent (within the last 24 months) financial relationship or affiliation with 
any organization that may have a direct or indirect interest in the business before the Committee.   
  
☐  I have had a financial relationship or affiliation with an organization(s) in the past 24 months that     
may have a direct or indirect interest in the business before the Committee. 
   
 COMPLETE TABLE BELOW: 
 
ORGANIZATION* 
ROLE/RELATIONSHIP* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*List additional organizations and role/relationships on additional page(s) if necessary 
 
I affirm under penalty of law that the information I have provided on this form is true, accurate, and 
complete to the best of my knowledge. 
 
NAME: 
 
 
SIGNATURE: 
 
 
DATE:\n