STATE: Arizona\nURL: https://azahcccs.gov/Resources/Downloads/PharmacyUpdates/2024/ConflictofInterest2024PT.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://azahcccs.gov/Members/Pharmacy/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
1
Conflict of Interest Training
Nicole Fries, Deputy General Counsel
Office of the General Counsel
AHCCCS


--- Page 2 ---
2
Agenda
• Applicable Laws & Policies
• Intent 
• Examples
• Procedures
• Questions 


--- Page 3 ---
3
Executive Order 2018-06
1.) The Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS) shall 
annually provide mandatory conflict of interest training to all members of the 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee.


--- Page 4 ---
4
Executive Order 2018-06
2.) AHCCCS shall publicly post all disclosure forms for all members of the 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee must abstain from vote if conflict of 
interest exists.


--- Page 5 ---
5
Executive Order 2018-06
3.) In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes Title 38 Chapter 3 Article 8, 
any member of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee who has a conflict 
on any agenda item shall abstain from participating in the discussion of and 
voting on that agenda item.


--- Page 6 ---
6
Executive Order 2018-06
4.) AHCCCS shall adopt a policy requiring any individual providing in-person or 
written testimony at meetings of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee 
to disclose whether they represent a pharmaceutical or medical device 
company and whether they have received any form of payment or 
compensation from a pharmaceutical or medical device company.


--- Page 7 ---
7
Executive Order 2018-06
5.) AHCCCS shall review publicly available data on payments by 
pharmaceutical and medical device companies to physicians to determine an 
appropriate threshold above which a person shall be disqualified from 
serving on the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee.


--- Page 8 ---
8
AHCCCS Contractor Operations Manual Ch. 111
Section III(B)(4) 
•
Committee members shall not: 
a. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a 
pharmaceutical manufacturer, 
b. Be employed by, subcontract with, or directly or indirectly represent a 
Pharmacy Benefits Management (PBM) company, or 
c. Receive payments or compensation from the pharmaceutical industry in excess 
of the CMS Open Payments database US Mean, including the Specialty Mean, if 
available, for the most recent year.  


--- Page 9 ---
9
AHCCCS Contractor Operations Manual Ch. 111: 
Appendix A Disclosure Form
Disclosure:
⮚Any financial relationship, affiliation, or other relationship 
o
May include, but is not limited to: being employed by, being on retainer, 
having research or honoraria paid by, or receiving other forms of 
remuneration
⮚With any organization 
⮚That may have a direct or indirect interest in business that may be considered by 
the Committee
⮚Within the past 24 months 


--- Page 10 ---
10
Arizona Statutes for All Public Officers
•
A.R.S. § 38-503 requires disclosure and abstention as set forth in Executive Order 2018-
06.  It pertains to a “substantial interest in” a contract, sale, purchase or service to the 
public agency. 
o
Applies to officers and their “relatives”:  spouse, child, child's child, parent, grandparent, brother 
or sister of the whole or half blood and their spouses and the parent, brother, sister or child of a 
spouse.
•
A.R.S. § 38-504
o
(A) No representation, for compensation, any person or entity to the Committee 
while serving or for one year afterward. 
o
(B) No disclosure or use, for profit, of confidential information obtained while on the 
committee or for two years afterward.
o
(C) No use of Committee member status to “secure any valuable thing or valuable 
benefit” if it “is of such character as to manifest a substantial and improper influence 
on” duties as a committee member.


--- Page 11 ---
11
Integrity, Impartiality and Financial Interests 
Are there incentives to approve drugs that do not meet criteria? 
⮚Financial relationships can influence decisions on drug coverage that 
should be made based on empirical data. 
⮚Covered drugs should be safe, effective, clinically appropriate, and the most 
cost-effective
⮚Minimizing financial interests in the decision-making process helps ensure 
impartiality in the development of the Drug List, maintaining the integrity 
of pharmaceutical coverage. 


--- Page 12 ---
12
Examples
Scenario: The Committee is discussing whether it should delete Pneumovax 
from the Drug List because of reported correlations with Guillain-Barre 
Syndrome. 
•
Example 1: You own stock in Merck. Does it matter how much Pfizer stock 
you own?  Is it on your disclosure form?
•
Example 2: You’re a physician who prefers Prevnar to Pneumovax, or vice 
versa.
•
Example 3: You’re a paid consultant on Prevnar (or Pneumovax). 
•
Example 4: Your spouse is a paid consultant on Pneumovax.
•
Example 5: Your cousin’s spouse is a Pfizer employee.


--- Page 13 ---
13
More Examples
• What are subcontracts? 
o Consulting?  Honoraria?  Licensing/royalty fees?
• If you speak at a continuing education program about a drug 
manufactured by the program’s sponsor, do you directly or 
indirectly represent the pharmaceutical manufacturer?
• If you sell your stock in Pfizer, can you now vote on the 
inclusion/exclusion of Pfizer’s products from the Drug List? 


--- Page 14 ---
14
Disclosure Procedures
•
Before a Committee member participates in their first Committee 
meeting, Committee members shall submit the completed Conflict of 
Interest Disclosure Form and disclose any potential conflicts of interest 
with respect to their participation in Committee business.
•
Committee members shall update their Conflict of Interest Disclosure 
Form no less than annually from the date of first completion, and 
additionally no later than 30 calendar days from any change to the 
information in the existing Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form. The form 
shall be submitted to AHCCCS at AHCCCSPharmacyDept@azahcccs.gov. 
•
Committee must consider disclosure forms. Committee members must 
abstain from votes when there is a potential conflict of interest. 


--- Page 15 ---
15
Questions?
Nicole Fries, Deputy General Counsel\n