STATE: South Dakota
URL: https://boardsandcommissions.sd.gov/bcuploads/SDM_PTMinutes_2026.3%20DRAFT.pdf
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://boardsandcommissions.sd.gov/Meetings.aspx?BoardID=204

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
South Dakota Department of Social Services, Division of Medicaid Services 
Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) Committee Meeting Minutes 
Friday,  March 13, 2026 
1:00 – 3:00 pm CT 
 
 
Members and DSS Staff 
 
Michelle Baack, MD 
X 
Deidra Van Gilder, PharmD, Chair 
X 
Sarah McGill, PharmD 
X 
Brian Wilson, DO 
X 
Jesse Nieuwenhuis, MD 
X 
Clarissa Barnes, MD, DSS Staff 
X 
Kelley Oehlke, PharmD 
– 
Mike Jockheck, DSS Staff 
X 
Heather Preuss, MD 
X 
Taylor Koerner, DSS Staff 
X 
Brandi Tackett, PharmD 
X 
 
 
 
 
Administrative Business 
New committee member Brian Wilson was introduced and welcomed. 
Van Gilder called the meeting to order at 1:09 pm. The minutes of the December meeting were 
presented. Baack made a motion to approve. Nieuwenhuis seconded the motion. The motion to approve 
the minutes was approved unanimously. 
 
Prior Authorization Update (PA) and Statistics 
The committee reviewed the PA activity report from October 1, 2025, to December 31, 2025. A total of 
8,540 PAs were reviewed of which 122 requests (1.43%) were received via telephone; 91 requests (1.07%) 
were received via fax; 5,448 requests (63.8%) were reviewed electronically; and 2,879 requests (33.7%) 
were reviewed via ePA.  
 
Analysis of the Top 15 Therapeutic Classes and Drug Spend 
The committee reviewed the top 15 therapeutic classes by total cost of claims from October 1, 2025, to 
December 31, 2025. The top five therapeutic classes based on paid amount were atypical antipsychotics, 
immunomodulator agents, incretin mimetics, tumor necrosis factor inhibitors, and interleukin-mediated 
agents. These top 15 therapeutic classes comprise 16.9% of total claims. The committee also reviewed the 
top 50 drugs based on amount paid and number of claims. The top 50 drugs by amount paid constitute 
7.85% of total claims. Vyvgart Hytrulo made its debut on the Top 50 drug list by paid amount. Tackett 
remarked more medical drugs shifting to pharmacy as these formulations with hyaluronidase allows 
quicker administration. Van Gilder asked if there were any public comments; none were offered. 
 
Old Business 
Non-Hormonal Drugs for Vasomotor Symptoms 
Committee reviewed utilization of non-hormonal drugs for vasomotor symptoms. Baack commented on 
the challenge of adding PA for women who have contraindications and risks to hormonal therapy. Van 
Gilder asked if there were any public comments; none were offered. After discussion, Baack motioned to 
add prior authorization (PA). Nieuwenhuis seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.  
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
Opioid Update 
The committee reviewed opioid outcomes compared to the previous quarter from the opioid initiatives. 
There was a slight increase in opioid utilization during 3Q2025 which corresponded to increases in 
utilization of all drugs in general.  The average MME/day/utilizer stayed steady. Committee also reviewed 
breakdown of members using 3 or more pharmacies and prescribers. Van Gilder noted that the PDMP has 
significantly assisted in reducing poly prescriber and multi-pharmacy issues. Van Gilder asked if there 
were any public comments; none were offered. 
 
 
New Business 
Biosimilar PDL 
The medical Preferred Drug List (PDL) process and initial PDL for PAD Biosimilar Agents on the medical 
side were presented to the committee. The preferred biosimilar drug on the PAD Biosimilar PDL would 
not require PA. Additionally, Koerner said providers will receive notification via the listserv. Van Gilder 
asked if there were any public comments; none were offered.  
 
Brinsupri 
Clinical information for Brinsupri was presented for review. After discussion, committee recommended 
monitoring utilization and review again in six months. Van Gilder asked if there were any public 
comments; none were offered. 
 
Coxanto 
Clinical information for Coxanto was presented for review. Van Gilder recommended PA on oxaprozin 
capsules. After discussion, Nieuwenhuis motioned to adopt PA. Van Gilder asked if there were any public 
comments; none were offered. Baack seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.  
 
MASH Treatments 
Clinical information for Wegovy injection for MASH and review of Rezdiffra were presented for review. 
Baack said 20% of patients with MASH are non-obese. McGill raised concerns regarding GLP-1 agents in 
patients who are intolerant. Shawn Hansen, PharmD and Medical Account Director with Novo Nordisk, 
provided public comment. After discussion, Baack made motion to add criteria for trial and failure of 
Wegovy before Rezdiffra for patients with BMI 27 and over. Preuss seconded the motion. The motion was 
approved unanimously.  
 
Zepbound OSA 
Clinical information for Zepbound for OSA was presented for review. Beth Lubelczyk, PharmD and Health 
Outcome Liaison with Eli Lilly, provided public comment. Nieuwenhuis motioned to adopt PA criteria. 
Baack seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Adjournment 
The next meeting is scheduled for March 27, 2026. The June meeting is tentatively scheduled for June 12, 
2026. Sept meeting tentatively scheduled for Sept 25th. All motioned and were in favor of adjourning the 
meeting. The meeting adjourned at 2:47pm CT.
