STATE: Indiana
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.in.gov/recovery/indiana-initiatives/
SEED_URL: https://www.in.gov/medicaid/providers/clinical-services/pharmacy-benefits/pharmacy-services/
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Next Level Agenda
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=UTF-8
TITLE: NextLevel Recovery: Indiana Initiatives IN.gov

NextLevel Recovery: Indiana Initiatives 
IN.gov 
An official website of the Indiana State Government 
Accessibility 
Settings 
Language Translation 
Governor Mike Braun 
Indiana Commission to Combat Substance Use Disorder 
MENU 
Top FAQs 
Top FAQs 
Indiana Commission to Combat Substance Use Disorder Home 
About 
- Click to Expand 
Toggle 
About the Chairman 
- Click to Expand 
About the Commission 
- Click to Expand 
Newsroom 
- Click to Expand 
Contact 
- Click to Expand 
Settlement 
- Click to Expand 
Indiana Mental Health and Addiction Conference 
- Click to Expand 
Progress Report 
- Click to Expand 
Data 
- Click to Expand 
Know The Facts 
- Click to Expand 
Toggle 
Addiction is a Disease 
- Click to Expand 
Treatment is Available 
- Click to Expand 
Recovery is Possible 
- Click to Expand 
5 Ways You Can Help 
- Click to Expand 
Outreach Materials 
- Click to Expand 
See the Person 
- Click to Expand 
Prevention 
Treatment 
Enforcement 
- Click to Expand 
Close Menu 
Indiana Initiatives 
ACTIONS & PROGRESS REPORT 
Updated December 2023:  Download PDF 
An important pillar in his Next Level Agenda, attacking the drug crisis is a top priority for Governor Eric Holcomb. On the day he took office, he called for an “all hands on deck” approach to address the rising occurrence of substance use disorder in Indiana. Every day since, Governor Holcomb has been taking steps to prevent more people from becoming dependent on illicit substances, help Hoosiers access treatment and recover from substance use disorder, arrest and prosecute dealers whose actions cause harm, and reduce the risk of a future crisis of similar magnitude. 
When COVID-19 arrived in Indiana, the state was tasked with restructuring the traditional treatment model to ensure Hoosiers could still receive the support they needed while at home. Partner organizations went virtual to continue providing peer recovery support, community outreach, telemedicine, naloxone and suicide prevention training. Residential substance use disorder providers and recovery residences kept their doors open. Thanks to the quick work at the Division of Mental Health and Addiction and remarkable flexibility from Indiana’s federal partners, access to life saving medication-assisted treatment was preserved. It’s imperative that Hoosiers continue to stay connected and share resources as we find new ways to support individuals with a substance use disorder during this unprecedented time. 
In response to Governor Holcomb’s call to action, many public and private partners have joined forces with us. Our Next Level Recovery initiatives have been amplified with federal support and funding. While we’ve seen encouraging signs of progress that demonstrate our efforts are having an impact, one life lost is too many, and there’s still much more to do. 
2017 General Assembly Legislation 
SEA 243 
Establishes a pilot project to pay for OB/GYN doctors to be trained in prescribing drugs such as buprenorphine for medication-assisted treatment. 
SEA 226 
Limits prescriptions to first-time patients and children. Provides an option for patients to accept less pills than prescribed. 
SEA 446 
Sets up a pilot project to provide opioid treatment to pregnant women and mothers of newborns at three locations in Indiana: Indianapolis, Winchester and southern Indiana. 
SEA 242 
Creates a plan by 2018 to house and treat homeless Hoosiers who have a drug addiction, mental illness or combination of the two. 
HEA 1541 
Supplies the framework for mobile treatment units to expand care in underserved parts of the state. 
SEA 156 
Develops a plan by January 1, 2018 to increase the number of inpatient and residential beds for detox and drug treatment in Indiana. 
HEA 1438 
Allows municipalities to establish the syringe exchange programs without state approval. 
SEA 510 
Provides that Allen County may enter into an agreement with an entity to administer a residential substance abuse pilot program. 
SEA 151 
Requires prescribers to indicate when a patient has entered into a pain management agreement. 
SEA 408 
Audits the amount of money being spent to integrate INSPECT with electronic health record systems and asks a committee to study improvements to INSPECT. 
SEA 499 
Establishes a three year opioid treatment pilot program (pilot program) for opioid abuse disorder in Tippecanoe, Marion, and Wayne counties. 
HEA 1006 
Ensures residences for residential care and supported housing for chronic addiction are certified and meet standards determined by the division of mental health and addiction. 
About 
Opioid Settlement 
Progress Report 
Drug Data Dashboard 
Sign Up for Email/Text Updates 
Email 
SMS/Text Message 
1 (US) 
1 
Copyright © 2026 State of Indiana - All rights reserved.