STATE: Kansas
URL: https://www.kdhe.ks.gov/202/Drug-Utilization-Review-Board
ROLE: linked from capped seed: Drug Utilization Review Board
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Drug Utilization Review Board | KDHE, KS Arrow Left Arrow Right Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow

Drug Utilization Review Board | KDHE, KS Skip to Main Content Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. Website Sign In Search How Do I... KanCare Eligibility Data Reports Drug Program Our Work Medicaid Home Programs & Services Medicaid / Health Care Finance Our Work Pharmacy Clinical Programs Drug Utilization Review Program Drug Utilization Review Board Drug Utilization Review Board Meetings The Drug Utilization Review Board (DUR) meets quarterly, the third Wednesday in the months of February, May, August, and November, from 10 am to 2 pm via Zoom and/or at Gainwell Technologies (formerly DXC Technology). The address is 6511 SE Forbes Avenue, Building 283J Topeka, KS 66619. The meeting is in the Capital Room Conflict of Interest Members of the general public are required to complete a Conflict of Interest (COI) form (PDF) if they intend to provide public comments to the Board. To assist the operator in coordinating public comment, completed forms are due one week prior to the meeting. Email the completed form to Anh Rongish . Agenda & Draft PA Criteria Minutes Archive Board Members Agenda & Draft PA Criteria Current Agendas January 21, 2026 - Draft PA Criteria May 20, 2026 - Draft PA Criteria August 19, 2026 November 18, 2026 Minutes Drug Utilization Review Board Minutes January 2026 Minutes (PDF) Archive DUR Archive Find DUR Board Meeting Minutes and Agendas from 2017 to 2024 in the archive. Board Members Board Members Member Name Office Location Board Position Arthur Snow, MD Shawnee Mission, KS Physician who is a Medical Director of a nursing facility, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated by the Kansas Medical Society and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. Kamalakar Surineni, MD, MPH Wichita, KS Physician who is actively engaged in a mental health practice, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated by the Kansas Psychiatric Society and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. Jim Backes, PharmD (Chair) Kansas City, KS Pharmacist who is actively engaged or has experience in research pharmacy, nominated jointly by the Kansas task force for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association and Kansas University, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. Michele Reisinger, DNP, APRN, FNP-BC (Vice-Chair) Leawood, KS APRN or PA who is actively engaged in providing health care and treatment services for which they are licensed, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated jointly by the Kansas State Nurses' Association and Kansas Academy of Physicians Assistants, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. McKayla Crystal, PharmD Girard, KS Pharmacist who is actively engaged in retail pharmacy, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated by the State Board of Pharmacy and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. Betsy P. Reynolds, PharmD Overland Park, KS Pharmacist who is actively performing or has experience performing Medicaid pharmacy services for a licensed adult care home, nominated by the State Board of Pharmacy, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE, from a list of two or more nominees. (Vacant) Physician who is actively engaged in general practice of allopathic medicine, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated by the Kansas Medical Society, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE from a list of two or more nominees. Daryl J. Callahan, D.O., M.S.S. Wichita, KS Physician who is actively engaged in general practice of osteopathic medicine, has experience with the State Medicaid Plan, nominated by the Kansas Association of Osteopathic Medicine, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE, from list of two or more nominees. Gregory Burger, PharmD, CPPS, FASHP, EMT Topeka, KS Pharmacist who is actively performing or has experience performing Medicaid pharmacy services for a hospital, nominated by the Kansas Hospital Association, and appointed by the Secretary of KDHE, from a list of two or more nominees. KDHE Home Drug Utilization Review Board Newsletters Apply for KanCare Regulations Open Records Request Electronic Health Records Drug Program Contact Us To protect and improve the health and environment of all Kansans. KanCare website Contact Us Division of Health Care Finance 900 SW Jackson Suite 900 N Topeka, KS 66612 Email Phone: 785-296-3982 Division & Staff Directory Quick Links Working Healthy Kansas Health Information Technology Kansas Family Medical Assistance Manual (KFMAM) KanCare Program Fact Sheets KanCare Eligibility Policy KMAP General Special Requirements Manual /QuickLinks.aspx Helpful Links KDHE Home Site Map Accessibility Privacy Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Open Records Social Media Policy Kansas.gov /QuickLinks.aspx Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close Arrow Left Arrow Right [] Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow