Source URL: https://nebraska.fhsc.com/Downloads/NE_PT_PDLguidelines.pdf
State: Nebraska
Label: PDL Guidelines
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
Preferred Drug List Guidelines 
Preferred Drug List Guidelines 
Preferred Drugs 
The drugs that are included on the Preferred Drug List (PDL) are those drugs that are 
determined by the Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee to be the best in a 
particular class based on: clinical effectiveness, safety and outcomes. When all drugs in a 
class are therapeutically equivalent or nearly equivalent, then the cost of the drug 
including rebates will be considered. Most medications on the PDL can be prescribed 
and dispensed without prior approval. Some Preferred Drugs may have clinical claim 
limits to ensure appropriate use and patient safety. 
When considering medications for Nebraska Medicaid clients, providers should try to 
choose drugs that are on the PDL. 
Non-Preferred Drugs 
Non-preferred drugs will remain available to Nebraska Medicaid clients, but will be 
subject to Prior Authorization. These criteria will be based on failure, side effects or 
contraindications to medications on the Preferred Drug list. 
Methods of Review of Drugs 
Clinical Analysis: Each drug is reviewed on its clinical contributions relative to other 
medications in the same therapeutic category. Data regarding efficacy, adverse effects 
and tolerability is analyzed and compared to other drugs within the therapeutic class. 
Economic Analysis: An economic analysis will incorporate Nebraska utilization data, the 
CMS (federally negotiated with drug manufacturers) rebates and any supplemental 
rebates offered to the State by the drug manufacturers. 
Posting of the Preferred Drug List 
The Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) shall maintain an 
updated PDL in electronic format and shall make the list available to the public on the 
Nebraska Medicaid Pharmacy internet web site: https://nebraska.fhsc.com 
Audits of the Preferred Drug List 
Each drug class will be reviewed and updated annually. 
The Pharmacy Benefit Management (PBM) Service will provide: 
• 
Quarterly reports showing status of all supplemental rebate agreements 
• 
Quarterly PDL compliance 
• 
Quarterly report showing savings achieved from PDL/Supplemental Rebate 
program. 
--- Page 2 ---
Preferred Drug List Guidelines 
Resolution of Disputes 
The Prime Therapeutics State Government Solutions Rebate Manager will have 
primary responsibilities for disputes of Supplemental Rebate Rate Data. 
Drug prior authorization denials may be appealed by either the client or the prescriber 
acting on behalf of the client using the established appeal process.
