Source URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/Draft%20DUR%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes%201.13.26.pdf
State: Nebraska
Label: Draft Minutes​
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday January 13th, 2026 
DRAFT pending approval at the next meeting 
DUR Board Members in attendance: Marin Broucek, M.D., Matt Titchener R.P., Charlie 
Moore, R.P., David Randolph, R. P., Jaci Timmons, M.D. 
Nebraska Medicaid and LTC attendees in attendance: Lee Stutzman, R.P., Pharmacy 
Director, Leah Spencer, RN, Program Specialist, Dianne Garside, R.P., Spencer Moore, 
R.P. 
Contracted attendees: Jamie Benson, R.P., Maria Martin, R.P., Nebraska Total Care; 
Michael Labadie, R.P., Molina Healthcare 
Public attendees: Kurt Hendrickson, AbbVie; John Bullard, Alexion; Shawn Akey, Concis; 
Miranda Ryzenman, Artia; John Freeland, Novo Nordisk; Raj Selvaraj, Novo Nordisk; 
Randall Roth, Merck; Nikki Asse, Jeff Houston, Ann Marie O’Toole, John Suelzer 
I. 
Opening and Introductions 
Lee Stutzman called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM. The meeting was held at the Best 
Western Plus Lincoln Inn & Suites in Lincoln, NE. A copy of the Opens Meetings Act was 
available. 
II. Declaration of any Conflict of Interest or changes 
No changes in conflict of interest were noted. 
III. Agenda approval 
The meeting agenda was approved as follows: Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes, Timmons-yes, Moore-
did not vote, Randolph- absent, 
IV. Review and Approval of Minutes from previous Board meeting 
The previous meeting minutes were approved as follows: Titchener-yes, Broucek-yes, Timmons-
abstain, Moore-did not vote, Randolph-absent 
V. Update on Recommendations from Previous Meeting 
Lee Stutzman provided updates on letters sent to prescribers regarding concomitant prescribing of 
GLP-1s and DPP4s. The current response rate was presented to the board. 
VI. Retrospective DUR 
--- Page 2 ---
Old Business 
Spencer Moore presented final data on buprenorphine utilization following the posting of the clinical 
guidance document in May 2025. An increase in the number of prescribers was noted. 
New Business 
Spencer Moore presented data on opioids, benzodiazepines, antipsychotics, and antiepileptic 
medications given concomitantly. 
VII. Prospective DUR 
Old Business: 
Fee-For-Service PA annual review; 
Dianne Garside presented the Immunomodulators PA form revisions. A motion to approve the form as 
written was made by Broucek and approved as follows: Broucek-yes, Moore-yes, Randolph-absent, 
Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes, 
New Business 
Dianne Garside presented the Wegovy PA form. New indication criteria for MASH was added to the 
existing Wegovy PA form. A motion to approve the form with revisions to differentiate the correct 
dosage forms with their indications was made by Titchener and approved as follows: Broucek-yes, 
Moore-yes, Randolph-yes, Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes. 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department – 
Stutzman requested the Board to bring forward any ideas for potential projects for future meetings. 
Randolph requested the State to research concomitant use of two or more alpha-blockers to 
determine if a project should be brought forth in the future on this topic and specified overlap of thirty 
days would be an appropriate parameter if the State were to look at utilization. 
IX. Future Meeting Dates 
May 12th, August 18th, and October 27th, 2026 January 12th, 2027 
X. Concerns and Comments from the DUR Board 
None. 
XI. Concerns and Comments from the DUR Director 
None. 
XII. Concerns and Comments from the State DHHS Representatives 
None. 
XIII. Concerns and Comments from the MCO Representatives 
None. 
XIV. Concerns and Comments from the Public Attendees 
Novo-Nordisk representatives made comments regarding the presented Wegovy PA form. 
--- Page 3 ---
XV. Adjournment 
Motion to adjourn the meeting was approved at 7:21pm. No objections were made from the Board.
