Source URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/DUR%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes%2010.28.25.pdf
State: Nebraska
Label: Minutes​
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday October 28th, 2025 
DUR Board Members in attendance: Marin Broucek, M.D., Matt Titchener R.P., Charlie Moore, 
R.P. Excused absence: David Randolph, R. P., Jaci Timmons, M. D. 
Nebraska Medicaid and LTC attendees in attendance: Lee Stutzman, R.P., Pharmacy Director, 
Leah Spencer, R.N. Program Specialist, Dianne Garside, R.P., Spencer Moore, R.P. 
Contracted attendees: Jamie Benson, R.P., Nebraska Total Care; Michael Labadie, R.P., Molina 
Healthcare, Bernadette Ueda, R.P., United Health Care, Shaleigh Hammons, Account Executive, 
Prime Therapeutics, Sandy Pranger, R.P., Sr. Director Clinical Account Services Prime Therapeutics 
Public Attendees in attendance: Suzanne Hansen, Gilead; Jodi Fuehrer, Renewal Health 
Outreach; Jon Freeland, Novo Nordisk; Randy Roth, Merck; Deb Hartle, Walgreens; Ginger Papesh, 
Novo Nordisk; Tina Hartman, Arcutis; Shelly Nickerson, Neurocrine; Justin Springfield, Gilead; 
Sherry Betthauser, Jazz 
I. Opening and Introductions 
Lee Stutzman called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM. The meeting was held at the Best Western 
Plus Lincoln Inn & Suites in Lincoln, NE. A copy of the open meetings act was available. Stutzman 
introduced the new Pharmacy Director for Molina Healthcare of Nebraska, Michael Labadie. 
II.Declaration of any Conflict of Interest or changes 
No changes in conflict of interest were declared. 
III.Agenda approval 
The agenda for the meeting was approved as follows: Moore-yes, Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes. 
IV.Review and Approval of Minutes from previous Board meeting Sept 9th, 2025 
The meeting minutes were approved as follows: Moore-yes, Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes. 
V.Update on Recommendations from Previous Meeting 
Stutzman announced that the age limit on Naltrexone tablets will be lowered from age 18 to 15 years 
old. 
VI.Retrospective DUR 
Old Business 
Spencer Moore presented SUPPORT Act data. Charlie Moore made a motion to review the 
SUPPORT Act data with the addition of an aggregated view of all 4 therapeutic classes with 
concomitant utilization among unique members. Motion passed was approved as follows: Moore-yes, 
Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes. 
--- Page 2 ---
Further data on Buprenorphine utilization was presented, showing an increase in the number of 
prescribers from previous data and noting that that the State had sent SUD/buprenorphine education 
to prescribers in May of 2025. 
New Business 
Spencer Moore presented data on Hepatitis C PDL compliance. No questions or comments from the 
Board. 
VII. Prospective DUR 
Old Business 
Dianne Garside presented the Buprenorphine for Opioid Dependence Treatment PA criteria form for 
annual review. No changes were recommended. A motion to approve the form as written was made 
by Marin Broucek and was approved as follows: Moore-yes, Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes. 
Dianne Garside presented the Insulin-Like Growth Factor PA criteria form for annual review. No 
changes were recommended. A motion to approve the form as written was made by Charlie Moore 
and was approved as follows: Moore-yes, Broucek-yes, Titchener-yes. 
New Business – None 
VIII. Special Requests from the Department - none 
IX.Future Meeting Dates 
January 13th, 2026, May 12th, 2026, August 18th, 2026, October or November meeting to be 
determined 
X.Concerns and Comments from the DUR Board 
Charlie Moore notes continued difficulties with pricing and reimbursement from the managed care 
organizations. 
XI.Concerns and Comments from the DUR Director – none 
XII. Concerns and Comments from the State DHHS Representatives– none 
XIII. Concerns and Comments from the MCO Representatives – none 
XIV. Concerns and Comments from the Public Attendees – none 
XV. Adjournment 
Motion to adjourn the meeting was approved at 7:04 PM. No objections were made from the Board.
