Source URL: https://dhhs.ne.gov/Documents/DUR%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes%20September%209,%202025.pdf
State: Nebraska
Label: Minutes​
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
Nebraska Medicaid DUR Board Meeting 
Tuesday September 9th, 2025 
DUR Board Members in attendance: Marin Broucek, M.D., Matt Titchener R.P., Charlie Moore, 
R.P., Jaci Timmons, M.D., David Randolph, R.P. 
Nebraska Medicaid and LTC attendees in attendance: Lee Stutzman, R.P., Pharmacy Director, 
Leah Spencer, R.N. Program Specialist, Dianne Garside, R.P., Spencer Moore, R.P. 
Contracted attendees: Jamie Benson, R.P., Nebraska Total Care; Kimberly Broyles-kpogli, R.P., 
Molina Healthcare, Shaleigh Hammons, Account Executive, Prime Therapeutics, Sandy Pranger, 
R.P., Sr. Director Clinical Account Services Prime Therapeutics 
Public Attendees in attendance: Amy Hornig, Abbvie; Suzanne Hansen, Gilead; Jodi Fuehrer, 
Renewal Health Outreach; Jon Freeland, Novo Nordisk; Randy Roth, Merck 
I. Opening and Introductions 
Lee Stutzman called the meeting to order at 6:30pm. The meeting was held at the Best 
Western Plus Lincoln Inn & Suites in Lincoln, NE. A copy of the open meetings act was 
available. 
II. Declaration of any Conflict of Interest or changes 
No conflicts or changes were stated. 
III. Agenda approval 
Motion was brought to approve the agenda by Broucek with a second by Titchener. The vote was as 
follows: Broucek-yes, Moore-yes, Randolph-absent, Timmons-absent, Titchener-yes 
IV. Review and Approval of Minutes from previous Board meeting May 13th, 2025 
Motion was brought to approve the agenda by Titchener with a second by Broucek. The vote was as 
follows: Broucek-yes, Moore-yes, Randolph-absent, Timmons-absent, Titchener-yes 
V. Update on Recommendations from Previous Meeting 
Stutzman announced the state will plan to review annual Support Act Data, do PA form reviews on 
opioid dependence treatments (buprenorphine/naloxone and buprenorphine) and insulin like growth 
factor, and bring information about Hepatitis C Preferred Drug List compliance at the next meeting on 
Oct 28th. 
VI. Retrospective DUR 
Old Business – None 
New Business 
--- Page 2 ---
Spencer Moore presented data on concomitant use of GLP-1s and DPP4s. Low rates of 
concomitant use were noted. Titchener motioned to notify prescribers via a letter that concomitant 
use of GLP1s and DPP4 medications is not recommended. The vote was as follows: Broucek-yes, 
Moore-yes, Randolph-absent, Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes 
Stutzman presented data on high-cost drugs. After Board discussion no further action was taken. 
VII. Prospective DUR 
Old Business 
Garside presented the PA form and criteria for Growth Hormone for its annual review. A motion was 
brought to approve the PA form and criteria by Broucek. The vote was as follows: Broucek-yes, 
Moore-yes, Randolph-yes, Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes 
New Business 
Sandy Pranger (Prime Therapeutics) presented State draft criteria form on new drug review, 
Journavx. After Board discussion, Titchener motioned to approve amended drafted criteria. The 
vote was as follows: Broucek-yes, Moore-yes, Randolph-yes, Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes 
The Board discussed the proposal to lower the age limit of Naltrexone. Titchener motioned to 
approve lowering the age of approved use from 18 down to 12 years. The vote was as follows: 
Broucek-yes, Moore-yes, Randolph-yes, Timmons-yes, Titchener-yes 
VIII. 
Special Requests from the Department – None 
IX. Future Meeting Dates 
October 28th, 2025 
X. Concerns and Comments from the DUR Board 
Board members raised a concern about patients getting started on newly FDA-approved 
medications and the cost issues associated with newer drugs compared to using lower cost, 
traditional drugs. 
XI. Concerns and Comments from the DUR Director - None 
XII. Concerns and Comments from the State DHHS Representatives - None 
XIII. 
Concerns and Comments from the MCO Representatives - None 
XIV. 
Concerns and Comments from the Public Attendees - None 
XV. Adjournment 
The motion was brought by Titchener and seconded by Broucek to adjourn the meeting. The 
motion was unanimously approved. Meeting adjourned at 7:36pm.
