STATE: South Carolina\nURL: https://southcarolina.fhsc.com/downloads/provider/PTMinutes_20101103.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://southcarolina.fhsc.com/providers/ptcommittee.asp\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
P&T Committee Meeting Minutes 
 
Page 1 of 3 
November 3, 2010 
 
  
South Carolina 
Department of Health and Human Services 
Post Office Box 8206 
Columbia, South Carolina 29202-8206 
 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee Meeting 
November 3, 2010 
MINUTES 
 
1. 
Call to Order 
A meeting of the P&T Committee convened at 4:00 p.m. on Wednesday, 
November 3, 2010. 
 
2. 
Welcome 
Debbie Tapley, RPh, called the meeting to order and welcomed members, 
guests, and staff members.   
 
Debbie Tapley opened the meeting by stating that the P&T Committee meetings 
are held in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act’s (FOIA) mandate 
that the public is notified when the public’s business is being done, and that 
furthermore, the public has been notified that this facility is accessible to 
individuals with disabilities, and special accommodations could have been 
provided if requested in advance. 
 
3. 
Committee Members Present: 
 
 
Gregory Browning, MD 
Bruce Johnson, MD 
Thomas Phillips, RPh 
Jody Bollinger, MD 
Kelly Jones, PharmD 
Tan Platt, MD 
Debbie Tapley, RPh 
 
 
 
SC DHHS: 
 
 
 
Magellan Medicaid Administration: 
Emma Forkner, Director 
 
Bryan Amick, PharmD 
Felicity Myers, PhD   
 
Mary Roberts, RPh 
James Assey, RPh 
 
 
 
Deidra Singleton, JD 
Vicki Johnson, JD 
Valeria Williams 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Industry Speakers 
 
 
 
4. 
Discussion Topics 
 
 
A.  Committee Meeting Minutes, Wednesday, August 4, 2010. 
 
The draft minutes from the previous P&T Committee meeting were emailed to 
the members so that they could review the document prior to the meeting.  The 
minutes were approved unanimously. 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
P&T Committee Meeting Minutes 
 
Page 2 of 3 
November 3, 2010 
 
  
 
B. SC DHHS Presentation 
 
Director Emma Forkner offered comments regarding the current budgetary 
concerns regarding the Medicaid program.  The Medicaid population continues 
to grow, and is expected to total 865,000 by the end of the current fiscal year.  
With the 2014 eligibility changes mandated by the Affordable Care Act, the 
Medicaid population will grow to 1.2 to 1.4 million beneficiaries. 
 
C. Public Comment 
 
The rules for public comment were outlined.  Debbie Tapley instructed the 
speakers that presentations would be limited to three minutes.  The Committee 
members’ meeting packets included the speakers’ curriculum vitae and signed 
disclosure declaration forms that were submitted prior to the meeting.  The 
following speakers (in order of appearance) discussed the drugs listed below. 
 
COMPANY 
SPEAKER 
DRUG 
No Public Comment Offered 
 
D. 
Drug Classes for Review  
 
Bryan Amick led the discussion for the following drug classes: 
Benzoyl Peroxide Products 
Benzoyl Peroxide/Clindamycin Combination Products 
Long Acting Insulins 
Short Acting Narcotic Analgesics                                                          
 
 
The following are the recommendations of the P & T Committee: 
 
BENZOYL PEROXIDE PREPARATIONS 
Recommendation that generic benzoyl peroxide preparations will be preferred and 
brand products will require PA. 
BENZOYL PEROXIDE/CLINDAMYACIN COMBINATIONS 
Preferred 
Non-Preferred 
BENZACLIN  
ACANYA GEL 
CLINDAMYCIN-BENZOYL PEROXIDE 
DUAC CS 
LONG ACTING INSULINS 
Preferred 
Non-Preferred 
LANTUS (Vial and Pen) 
  
LEVEMIR (Vial and Pen) 
  
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
 
P&T Committee Meeting Minutes 
 
Page 3 of 3 
November 3, 2010 
 
  
 
SHORT ACTING NARCOTIC ANALGESICS 
Recommendation that generic short acting narcotics and combination products will 
be preferred and brand products will require PA.  
 
5.   
Old Business 
 
None 
 
6. 
New Business 
 
Posting of Atypical Antipsychotics: Director Forkner informed the Committee that the 
agency was looking to post all atypical antipsychotics as preferred to garner rebate 
dollars associated with their inclusion on the PDL.  The Committee expressed approval 
of this approach 
 
Rosiglitazone: The Committee voted to remove rosiglitazone from the preferred drug 
list and to require prior authorization for new patients started on any rosiglitazone 
containing products.  
 
OTC Utilization: Dr. Jones requested that an evaluation of OTC products reimbursed by 
Medicaid be conducted.   
 
7. 
Resolved Items 
 
Recommendations regarding PDL status for drugs in the following classes were 
approved for submission to DHHS: 
Benzoyl Peroxide Products 
Benzoyl Peroxide/Clindamycin Combination Products 
Long Acting Insulins 
Short Acting Narcotic Analgesics                                                          
 
8.   
Closing Comments 
 
The next meeting will be held on Wednesday, February 2, 2011, at 4:00 PM at the same 
location. 
 
9. 
Adjournment 
 
The meeting adjourned at 5:24 PM.\n