STATE: South Carolina\nURL: https://southcarolina.fhsc.com/downloads/provider/PTMinutes_20260204.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://southcarolina.fhsc.com/providers/ptcommittee.asp\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
South Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (SCDHHS) 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee  
Feb. 4, 2026, Meeting Minutes 
 
Committee Members Present  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kelly Barth, DO   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divya Ahuja, MD  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jony Bolinger, MD  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Patricia Witherspoon, MD 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Cheryl Hartvigsen, RPh   
 
 
 
 
 
Philip Mubarak, MD 
 
 
 
  
  
Kimberly Rudd, MD 
 
 
Duncan Norton, MD 
Garrett Whittle, PharmD 
 
SCDHHS Team Members Present 
Kimberly Bristow, RPh 
Brandie Crider, BSBA, CPhT 
Sarah Hearn-Bailey, Esq. 
Ashley Burton, DNP, FNP-BC                                                      
Kevin Wessinger, MD 
Tawanna Zeigler, MHSA, CPhT                                                                                                    
 
 
Prime Therapeutics Staff Present 
Lori Ash 
Alexis Jones, MHA, MA, CPhT 
Blake Cook, RPh 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Welcome and Call to Order 
 
Divya Ahuja, MD, called the meeting to order at 4:04 p.m.  
 
Freedom of Information Act/Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance Pledge – This body's official 
minutes will indicate that this meeting is in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act's mandate 
that the public be notified when the public's business is being done, and that furthermore, the public has 
been notified that this facility is accessible to individuals with disabilities, and special accommodations 
could have been provided if requested in advance. 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
Roll Call 
 
Kimberly Bristow, RPh, welcomed the Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee and encouraged 
them to attend future meetings in-person. Kimberly Bristow, RPh also asked for attestation forms to be 
completed and returned. 
 
Approval of Meeting Minutes 
 
The draft minutes from the previous P&T Committee meeting Nov. 5, 2025, were emailed to the 
members for review prior to the meeting. Garrett Whittle, PharmD, motioned to approve the previous 
P&T meeting minutes and Duncan Norton, MD, seconded the motion for approval. The minutes were 
approved unanimously. 
 
State Updates 
 
Kevin Wessinger, MD, notified committee that all providers that order, refer or prescribe services or 
items for SC Medicaid members must be enrolled in our Medicaid program even if they are not billing 
Medicaid directly. Providers may enroll through the SCDHHS’ website. Providers should select the 
“Ordering/Referring” provider type when enrolling. Providers who are only enrolled as an 
Ordering/Referring provider only need to enroll with SCDHHS and not with the state’s managed care 
organizations. Physicians who are already enrolled in Healthy Connections Medicaid are not required to 
enroll separately as ORP-only providers. 
 
Kimberly Bristow, RPh, notified committee members that beginning Jan. 1, 2026, MCOs were required 
to reimburse in-state independent pharmacies in parity with FFS methodology for most prescriptions. 
In-state independent pharmacies are determined by the permit type with SC LLR and enrollment data 
with SC Medicaid.   Several independent pharmacies reached out with reimbursement issues.  SC DHHS 
immediately collaborated with the MCOs and PBMs to resolve these issues.  Any claims affected by the 
coding issues can be reversed and rebilled for FFS reimbursement. 
 
Pharma Updates 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, informed the committee the state plans to continue utilizing the 
randomization process for meeting requests in 2026. Those who do not receive a meeting invitation by 
the end of February 2026 will be randomized for the first set of meetings in 2027. There will be one 40-
minute meeting per entity per year. Any questions or concerns can be directed to 
scpharma@primetherapeutics.com.  
 
New Drugs to Market 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, announced the newest drugs to the market. They are listed below. 
• 
Modeyso™ (dordaviprone)  
• 
Hernexeos™ (zongertinib) 
• 
Vizz™ (aceclidine ophthalmic solution)  
• 
Javadin® (clonidine oral solution)  
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
 
• 
Komzifti™ (ziftomenib) 
• 
Hyrnuo™ (sevabertinib) 
• 
Redemplo™ (plozasiran) 
• 
Lynkuet™ (elinzanetant) 
• 
Itvisma® (onasemnogene abeparvovec-brve) 
• 
Palsonify® (paltusotine) 
• 
Rhapsido™ (remibrutinib) 
• 
Exdensur™ (depemokimab-ulaa) 
• 
Voyxact™ (sibeprenlimab-szsi) 
• 
Aqvesme™ (mitapivat) 
 
Drug Classes for Review 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, stated there will be a review of several drug classes. 
 
Anti-Infectives: Lincosamides  
There was a recommendation to add clindamycin capsules /solution (generic for Cleocin®) as preferred 
and to add Cleocin® Capsules and Cleocin® Pediatric solution as non-preferred. 
 
Garrett Whittle, PharmD motioned for this to be approved, and Philip Mubarak, MD, seconded the 
motion.  This change was approved unanimously. 
Anti-Infectives: Oxazolidinones 
The following products were recommended to be added as preferred: linezolid suspension/tablet 
(generic for Zyvox®) as preferred with clinical criteria applied. 
 
The following products were recommended to be added as non-preferred: Sivextro® Tablet and Zyvox® 
Tablet / Suspension. 
 
Patricia Witherspoon, MD motioned for this to be approved pending the review of clinical criteria and 
Garrett Whittle, PharmD seconded the motion.  This change was approved unanimously. 
 
Anti-Infectives: Sulfonamide and Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitor, Oral 
There was a recommendation to add Sulfamethoxazole-Trimethoprim tablet/suspension (generic for 
Bactrim®/Bactrim DS®) and Trimethoprim tablet (generic for Primsol®) as preferred, Bactrim® tablet and 
Bactrim DS® tablet as non-preferred.  
 
Philip Mubarak, MD motioned for this to be approved and Patricia Witherspoon, MD seconded the 
motion.  This change was approved unanimously.  
 
Anti-Infectives: Nitrofurans, Oral  
There was a recommendation to add Nitrofurantoin Capsule/Suspension (generic Macrodantin®) and 
Nitrofurantoin Monohydrate-Macro Capsule (generic Macrobid®) as preferred, with Macrobid® capsule 
as non-preferred. 
 
Philip Mubarak, MD motioned for this to be approved and Duncan Norton, MD, seconded the motion.  
This change was approved unanimously.  
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\n 
 
 
 
Drug Classes for Re-Review 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, leads a review of one drug class. 
 
DPP-4 Inhibitors and Combinations 
There was a recommendation to add Janumet® XR Tablet and Onglyza® Tablet to preferred. 
 
Philip Mubarak, MD, motioned to approve. Duncan Norton, MD, seconded the motion. This change was 
approved unanimously. 
 
Brand to Generic Switch 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, provided a brand/generic update. 
 
Sacubitril-Valsartan (generic for Entresto®) will be preferred. Brand Entresto® will move to non-
preferred.  This change will be effective on 4/1/26. 
 
Housekeeping 
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, provided some general updates and reminders. 
 
The pharma email address is scpharma@primetherapeutics.com. 
 
The effective dates for the medications in the classes presented during this meeting are July 1, 2026. The 
Brand to Generic switch will be effective April 1, 2026.  
 
Manisa Bulsara, PharmD, also provided the committee with Journavx data from Oct. 15, 2025, to 
January 15, 2026. This was a prior request from the committee. There was a total of 45 patients who 
received the medication which has decreased since July 1, 2025. Manisa Bulsara, PharmD also noted 
Journavx® has recently (not even a week ago) received a revision on the current indication. Journavx® 
was previously approved for moderate to severe acute pain.  The revision includes moderate to severe 
acute pain including post operative pain. Dosing has not changed.  
 
Divya Ahuja, MD, asked for a motion to adjourn. Duncan Norton, MD, motioned. Garrett Whittle, 
PharmD, seconded the motion.  
 
Closing 
 
The meeting was closed by thanking attendees for their participation and encouraging them to attend 
the meeting in-person. The next P&T meeting is May 6, 2026, at 4 p.m. The meeting adjourned at 5:04 
p.m.\n