Source URL: https://www.michigan.gov/mdhhs/-/media/Project/Websites/mdhhs/Folder2/Folder25/Folder1/Folder125/MI_2016_COD_report_FINAL_022117.pdf?rev=004e23e0ca2143cf9fe34bb850d16512&hash=E216C1BFF385D62F5F653D0C7C4A80B6
State: Michigan
Label: 2016 MDHHS Survey of the Average Cost of Dispensing a Medicaid Prescription in the State of Michigan
Content-Type: application/pdf
Title: 

--- Page 1 ---
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF 
HEALTH AND HUMAN 
SERVICES 
Survey of the Average Cost of Dispensing a Medicaid 
Prescription in the State of Michigan 
February 21, 2017 
--- Page 2 ---
www.mslc.com  page 1 
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS 
Table of Contents 
 Table of Contents ................................................................................................................ 1 
 Chapter 1: Executive Summary .......................................................................................... 4 
• 
Introduction ................................................................................................................... 4 
• 
Summary of Findings .................................................................................................... 4 
Table 1.1 Dispensing Cost for Michigan Medicaid Pharmacies .................................. 5 
• 
Options for Professional Dispensing Fees ................................................................... 5 
• 
Conclusions .................................................................................................................. 6 
 Chapter 2: Dispensing Cost Survey and Analysis .............................................................. 8 
• 
Methodology of the Dispensing Cost Survey ............................................................... 9 
Survey Distribution ...................................................................................................... 9 
Table 2.1 Dispensing Cost Survey Response Rate .................................................. 11 
Tests for Reporting Bias ............................................................................................ 11 
Review Procedures ................................................................................................... 12 
• 
Cost Finding Procedures ............................................................................................ 12 
• 
Overhead Costs .......................................................................................................... 13 
• 
Labor Costs ................................................................................................................ 15 
• 
Owner Compensation Issues ..................................................................................... 16 
Table 2.2 Hourly Wage Limits for Owners ................................................................ 16 
Overall Labor Cost Constraints ................................................................................. 17 
• 
Impact of New Licensure Requirements for Pharmacy Technicians ......................... 17 
• 
Inflation Factors .......................................................................................................... 18 
• 
Dispensing Cost Analysis and Findings ..................................................................... 19 
Table 2.3 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – All Pharmacies ................................. 20 
Specialty Pharmacies ................................................................................................ 21 
Table 2.4 Dispensing Cost per Prescription - Specialty versus Other Pharmacies .. 21 
Table 2.5 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – Categories of Specialty Pharmacies 22 
Non-specialty Pharmacies ........................................................................................ 22 
Table 2.6 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – Excluding Specialty Pharmacies ...... 23 
Relationship of Dispensing Cost with Prescription Volume ...................................... 23 
--- Page 3 ---
www.mslc.com  page 2 
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS 
Table 2.7 Dispensing Cost by Pharmacy Total Annual Prescription Volume ........... 23 
• 
Other Observations Associated with Dispensing Cost and Pharmacy Attributes ...... 24 
Table 2.9 Components of Prescription Dispensing Cost .......................................... 25 
• 
Expenses Not Allocated to the Cost of Dispensing .................................................... 25 
Table 2.10 Non-Allocated Expenses per Prescription .............................................. 25 
--- Page 4 ---
www.mslc.com  page 3 
EXHIBITS 
EXHIBITS 
Exhibit 1 
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey – Survey Form 
Exhibit 2a 
Letter from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Regarding 
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost Survey (Independent Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 2b 
Letter from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Regarding 
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost Survey (Chain Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 3a 
First Survey Reminder Letter (Independent Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 3b 
First Survey Reminder Letter (Chain Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 4a 
Second Survey Reminder / Extension Letter (Independent Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 4b 
Second Survey Reminder / Extension Letter (Chain Pharmacies) 
Exhibit 5 
Table of Inflation Factors for Dispensing Cost Survey 
Exhibit 6 
Histogram of Pharmacy Dispensing Cost 
Exhibit 7 
Cost of Dispensing Survey Data – Statistical Summary 
Exhibit 8 
Table of Counties and Urban / Rural Locations for Michigan Pharmacies 
Exhibit 9 
Charts Relating to Pharmacy Total Prescription Volume: 
A: Histogram of Pharmacy Total Prescription Volume 
B: Scatter-Plot of Relationship between Dispensing Cost per Prescription and 
Total Prescription Volume 
Exhibit 10 
Chart of Components of Cost of Dispensing per Prescription 
Exhibit 11 
Summary of Pharmacy Attributes 
--- Page 5 ---
www.mslc.com  page 4 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
Chapter 1: Executive Summary 
Introduction 
Under contract to the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (Department), Myers 
and Stauffer LC performed a study of pharmacy dispensing cost. The cost of dispensing survey 
followed the methodology and used a survey instrument similar to those used by Myers and 
Stauffer in Medicaid pharmacy engagements in several other states. The methodology was 
consistent with guidelines from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in its 
recently finalized rule for Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement regarding the components of 
pharmacy cost that are appropriately reimbursed by the pharmacy dispensing fee of a state 
Medicaid program. 
Myers and Stauffer obtained from the Department a list of pharmacy providers currently enrolled 
in the Michigan Medicaid pharmacy program. According to the provider list, there were 2,683 
pharmacy providers that were enrolled in the Michigan Medicaid program. All 2,683 enrolled 
pharmacies were requested to submit survey information for this study. 
Myers and Stauffer performed basic desk review procedures to test completeness and accuracy 
of all dispensing cost surveys submitted. There were 1,862 pharmacies that filed cost surveys 
that could be included in this analysis. Data from these surveys, in conjunction with pharmacy-
specific cost-finding algorithms, was used to calculate the average cost of dispensing at each 
pharmacy and results from these pharmacies were subjected to statistical analysis. 
Summary of Findings 
Per the survey of pharmacy dispensing cost for pharmacies participating in the Michigan 
Medicaid program, the mean cost of dispensing, weighted by Medicaid volume, was $11.39 per 
prescription for all pharmacies including specialty pharmacies1. For non-specialty pharmacies 
only, the mean cost of dispensing, weighted by Medicaid volume, was $10.64 per prescription. 
1 For purposes of this report, “specialty” pharmacies are those pharmacies that reported sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood 
factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total prescription sales. 
--- Page 6 ---
www.mslc.com  page 5 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
Table 1.1 Dispensing Cost for Michigan Medicaid Pharmacies 
A Inflated to common point of June 30, 2016 (midpoint of year ending December 31, 2016). 
B Weighted by Medicaid volume. 
Options for Professional Dispensing Fees 
The use of a single dispensing fee for all pharmacies represents the simplest reimbursement 
option and is the most widely used methodology for pharmacy dispensing fees among state 
Medicaid programs. Despite indications that the cost of dispensing in specialty pharmacies varies 
from the cost of dispensing in non-specialty pharmacies, the use of a differential dispensing fee 
for specialty pharmacies has been relatively infrequent among state Medicaid programs. Several 
states have set dispensing fees based on the cost of dispensing observed at non-specialty 
pharmacies. However, this report includes cost of dispensing measurements for specialty 
pharmacies which can be considered in the process of evaluating professional dispensing fees 
for the Michigan Medicaid program. 
As an alternative to a reimbursement methodology based on a single dispensing fee, several 
states have adopted a tiered dispensing fee methodology utilizing tiers that are based on the 
annual total dispensing volume of pharmacies dispensing. The study showed a strong association 
between annual total prescription volume and the cost of dispensing. Pharmacies with higher 
annual total prescription volume tended to have a lower cost of dispensing indicative of higher 
levels of efficiency. A tiered approach would have the advantage of setting dispensing fees that 
are better matched, on average, to an individual pharmacy’s cost of dispensing. However, the use 
of a tiered dispensing fee methodology is more complex and potentially introduces the perception 
that pharmacies that tend to be more inefficient are being rewarded with higher dispensing fees. 
A reimbursement methodology that provides higher reimbursement for low volume pharmacies 
located in remote rural areas may be perceived as a positive enhancement for the pharmacy 
program since opportunities to increase efficiency through higher volume are inherently limited. 
However, low volume pharmacies can also occur in urban areas in conjunction with the opening 
of new stores in saturated markets. Higher dispensing fees for inefficient stores in such situations 
may not be conducive with program objectives. 
Another option for a variable dispensing fee is to use a higher dispensing fee to create an 
incentive for dispensing generic or other preferred products. A recent dispensing fee change for 
the Medicaid program in North Carolina serves as an example of this type of tiered dispensing 
All Pharmacies 
Inclusive of 
Specialty 
Non-specialty 
Pharmacies 
Only 
Pharmacies Included in Analysis
1,862
1,724 
Unweighted Mean (Average) A
$18.11
$12.15 
Weighted Mean (Average) A,B
$11.39
$10.64 
Unweighted Median A
$10.82
$10.65 
Weighted Median A, B
$9.90
$9.79 
--- Page 7 ---
www.mslc.com  page 6 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
fee. North Carolina uses a higher dispensing fee in association with the dispensing of generic 
products or drugs with are on the program’s preferred drug list. Furthermore, the Medicaid 
program monitors each pharmacies ratio of prescriptions dispensed that meet the criteria of being 
either generic products or products on the preferred drug list. For pharmacies that exceed a 
specified threshold for this ratio, the pharmacy is eligible to receive an enhancement to the 
dispensing fees paid. 
Several observations about the North Carolina model for variable dispensing fees are worth 
noting. First, the difference in the dispensing fees being paid in this case are not necessarily 
based on a determination from a cost of dispensing survey that there is a difference in the cost of 
dispensing these different types of products. Rather, the difference in the dispensing fee is 
designed to create an incentive to help the Medicaid program to meet its objectives. 
CMS requirements indicate that the professional dispensing fee must be based on the results of a 
cost of dispensing survey. Therefore, in cases of differential dispensing fees such as in the North 
Carolina model, Myers and Stauffer understands that CMS would require that a variable 
dispensing fee must be designed in such a way that it is possible to demonstrate that the net 
dispensing fees paid reimburse pharmacies’ costs in the aggregate. This means that a variable 
dispensing fee system must be comprehensively modeled using pharmacy claims data to make 
the assurance to CMS that the net dispensing fees paid are comparable to what would have been 
reimbursed under a single dispensing fee system that was tied to the average cost of dispensing. 
Conclusions 
Changes in the Michigan Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement formula should consider both the 
dispensing and ingredient components of the payment structure. Rates should take into 
consideration the final rule regarding Medicaid pharmacy services issued by CMS and published 
in the Federal Register on February 1, 2016.2 This rule requires state Medicaid programs to 
change the current basis for ingredient reimbursement from the currently defined “estimated 
acquisition cost” (EAC) to the concept of “actual acquisition cost” (AAC). The final rule from CMS 
reiterated the importance of the pharmacy dispensing fee. CMS indicates that state Medicaid 
programs that make the switch to an AAC methodology will be required to also implement a 
professional dispensing fee that reflects the pharmacist’s professional services and costs 
associated with the dispensing of drug products to Medicaid members. Changes to the pharmacy 
reimbursement methodology must consider both the ingredient reimbursement and the 
professional dispensing fee and must be supported by survey data. The final rule has an effective 
date of April 1, 2016. State Medicaid programs must comply with its requirements by submitting a 
State Plan Amendment (SPA) by June 30, 2017 to be effective no later than April 1, 2017. 
Based on the results of the study of pharmacy dispensing cost, a single dispensing fee of $11.39 
would reimburse the weighted mean cost of dispensing prescriptions to Michigan Medicaid 
members inclusive of both specialty and non-specialty pharmacies. A single dispensing fee of 
$10.64 would reimburse the weighted mean cost of dispensing prescriptions to Michigan 
Medicaid members for non-specialty pharmacies but would not account for the cost of dispensing 
prescriptions by specialty pharmacies. 
2 See “Medicaid Program; Covered Outpatient Drugs.” (CMS-2345-FC) Federal Register, 81: 20 (1 February 2016) p 5170. 
--- Page 8 ---
www.mslc.com  page 7 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
Several options other than a single statewide professional dispensing fee are available to state 
Medicaid programs. CMS allows states significant flexibility to design its professional dispensing 
fees but does require that dispensing fees have some basis in a survey of pharmacy dispensing 
cost. Other states have used this flexibility to develop tiered dispensing fees based on pharmacy 
prescription volume, pharmacy location or to create incentives for the dispensing of certain 
preferred products. Many state Medicaid programs are also looking closely at the dispensing cost 
observed for specialty pharmacies with the understanding that changes to the ingredient 
reimbursement for specialty pharmacies will also require an evaluation of the professional 
dispensing fees paid to those pharmacies. 
--- Page 9 ---
www.mslc.com  page 8 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Chapter 2: Dispensing Cost Survey and 
Analysis 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (Department) engaged Myers and 
Stauffer LC to perform a study of costs incurred by pharmacies participating in the Michigan 
Medicaid pharmacy program to dispense prescription medications. There are two primary 
components related to the provision of prescription medications: dispensing cost and drug 
ingredient cost. Dispensing cost consists of the overhead and labor costs incurred by a pharmacy 
to fill prescription medications. 
In its final rule regarding Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement, the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services (CMS) has provided some basic guidelines for appropriate costs to be 
reimbursed via a Medicaid pharmacy dispensing fee. CMS guidelines state: 
“Professional dispensing fee means the fee which— 
(1) Is incurred at the point of sale or service and pays for costs in excess of the ingredient cost 
of a covered outpatient drug each time a covered outpatient drug is dispensed; 
(2) Includes only pharmacy costs associated with ensuring that possession of the appropriate 
covered outpatient drug is transferred to a Medicaid recipient. Pharmacy costs include, but are 
not limited to, reasonable costs associated with a pharmacist’s time in checking the computer 
for information about an individual’s coverage, performing drug utilization review and preferred 
drug list review activities, measurement or mixing of the covered outpatient drug, filling the 
container, beneficiary counseling, physically providing the completed prescription to the 
Medicaid beneficiary, delivery, special packaging, and overhead associated with maintaining 
the facility and equipment necessary to operate the pharmacy; and 
(3) Does not include administrative costs incurred by the State in the operation of the covered 
outpatient drug benefit including systems costs for interfacing with pharmacies.” 3 
In this final rule, CMS did not fundamentally alter the definition for the components of the 
dispensing fee as previously codified at 42 CFR 447.502 other than to replace the terminology of 
“dispensing fee” with “professional dispensing fee”. However, the importance of the pharmacy 
dispensing fee was highlighted in conjunction with a change in the basis for ingredient 
reimbursement from the previously defined “estimated acquisition cost” (EAC) 4 to “actual 
3 See “Medicaid Program; Covered Outpatient Drugs.” (CMS-2345-FC) Federal Register, 81: 20 (1 February 2016) p 5349. 
4 See 42 CFR 447.502 for definition of the EAC (“the agency's best estimate of the price generally and currently paid by providers 
for a drug marketed or sold by a particular manufacturer or labeler in the package size of drug most frequently purchased by 
providers”) and 42 CFR 447.512 for upper limits of payment that incorporate the EAC requirement. 
--- Page 10 ---
www.mslc.com  page 9 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
acquisition cost” (AAC).5 The requirement that state Medicaid agencies should more closely 
match their ingredient reimbursement to actual acquisition cost highlights the importance of the 
professional dispensing fee. CMS stated in the proposed rule published in 2012: 
…we feel that this change from ‘‘dispensing fee’’ to ‘‘professional dispensing fee’’ 
reinforces our position that once the reimbursement for the drug is properly determined, 
the dispensing fee should reflect the pharmacist’s professional services and costs 
associated with ensuring that possession of the appropriate covered outpatient drug is 
transferred to a Medicaid beneficiary. Therefore, as States change their payment for 
ingredient cost, we also propose to require States to reconsider the dispensing fee 
methodology consistent with the revised requirements. 6 
Currently, state Medicaid agencies use a wide variety of reimbursement rates in their pharmacy 
programs. Pharmacy dispensing fees in Medicaid programs vary from under $2 to over $18. 
Many state Medicaid programs will need to modify their current dispensing fee structure in order 
to be compliant with the recent final rule from CMS. Private third party payers generally reimburse 
for dispensing fees and drug ingredients at rates less than those paid by most Medicaid 
programs. On average, dispensing fees paid by private third party payers are less than the 
dispensing cost of most pharmacies. One recent survey of pharmacy reimbursement rates from 
third-party payers reported an average dispensing fees to retail pharmacies for brand name drugs 
of $1.87 for prescriptions with a 30 day supply and $1.52 for prescriptions with a 90 day supply.7 
National studies also indicate that in recent years, private payer pharmacy dispensing fees have 
declined. 
Methodology of the Dispensing Cost Survey 
In order to determine costs incurred to dispense pharmaceuticals to members of the Michigan 
Medicaid pharmacy program, Myers and Stauffer utilized a survey method consistent with CMS 
guidelines for the components of a pharmacy dispensing fee in 42 CFR 447.502 and the 
methodology of previous surveys conducted by Myers and Stauffer in several other states. 
Survey Distribution 
Myers and Stauffer obtained from the Department a list of pharmacy providers currently enrolled 
in the Michigan Medicaid pharmacy program. According to the provider list, there were 2,683 
pharmacy providers enrolled in the program. Surveys were mailed to all 2,683 pharmacy 
providers on July 29, 2016. Each surveyed pharmacy received a copy of the cost survey (Exhibit 
1) and a letter of explanation from the Department (Exhibit 2a and Exhibit 2b). 
5 In the final rule, AAC is defined as “…the agency’s determination of the pharmacy providers’ actual prices paid 
to acquire drug products marketed or sold by specific manufacturers.” (p. 5174). 
6 See “Medicaid Program; Covered Outpatient Drugs.” Federal Register, 77: 22 (2 February 2012) p 5326. 
7 See 2014-2015 Prescription Drug Benefit Cost and Plan Design Report, Pharmacy Benefits Management Institute, LP and 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. 
--- Page 11 ---
www.mslc.com  page 10 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Concerted efforts to encourage participation were made to enhance the survey response rate. A 
survey help desk was provided by Myers and Stauffer. A toll-free telephone number and email 
address were listed on the survey form and pharmacists were instructed to call or email to resolve 
any questions they had concerning completion of the survey form. The letter of explanation 
offered pharmacy owners the option of having Myers and Stauffer complete certain sections of 
the survey for those that were willing to submit copies of financial statements and/or tax returns. 
For convenience in completing the cost of dispensing survey, the survey forms were also made 
available in electronic formats. Pharmacies were provided with options to report data using Excel 
spreadsheets. 
Reminder letters were sent on August 17, 2016 to surveyed pharmacies (Exhibits 3a and 3b). 
Additional letters were sent on August 31, 2016 with a further reminder and an extension of the 
original due date of August 31, 2016 to September 14, 2016 (Exhibits 4a and 4b). 
Providers were given instructions to report themselves as ineligible for the survey if they met 
certain criteria. Pharmacies were to be deemed ineligible if they had closed their pharmacy, had a 
change of ownership, or had less than six months of cost data available (e.g., due to a pharmacy 
that recently opened, or changed ownership). Of the 2,683 surveyed pharmacies, 123 
pharmacies were determined to be ineligible to participate (based on the returned surveys). 
Surveys were accepted through November 1, 2016. As indicated in Table 2.1, 1,862 surveyed 
pharmacies submitted a usable cost survey for this study resulting in a response rate of 72.7%. 
Some of the submitted cost surveys contained errors or did not include complete information 
necessary for full evaluation. For cost surveys with such errors or omissions, the pharmacy was 
contacted for clarification. There were limited instances in which issues on the cost survey were 
not resolved in time for inclusion in the final analysis. 8 
8 There were 95 incomplete surveys received on or before November 1, 2016 that were eventually determined to be unusable 
because they were substantially incomplete or missing essential information. These issues could not be resolved in a timely 
manner with the submitting pharmacy. These incomplete surveys were not included in the count of 1,862 usable surveys received. 
--- Page 12 ---
www.mslc.com  page 11 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
The following table, 2.1, summarizes the dispensing cost survey response rate. 
Table 2.1 Dispensing Cost Survey Response Rate 
Pharmacy 
Category 
Medicaid 
Enrolled 
Pharmacies 
Pharmacies 
Exempt or 
Ineligible from 
Filing 
Eligible 
Pharmacies 
Usable 
Cost 
Surveys 
Received 
Response 
Rate 
Chain9 
1,624 
49 
1,575 
1,286 
81.7% 
Non-chain 
1,059 
74 
985 
576 
58.5% 
TOTAL 
2,683 
123 
2,560 
1,862 
72.7% 
In-State 
Urban10 
2,084 
106 
1,978 
1,456 
73.6% 
In-State Rural 
426 
12 
417 
303 
72.7% 
Out-of-State 
170 
5 
165 
103 
62.4% 
TOTAL 
2,513 
118 
2,395 
1,759 
72.7% 
Tests for Reporting Bias 
For the pharmacy traits of affiliation (i.e., chain or independent) and location (i.e., urban or rural), 
the response rates of the submitted surveys were tested to determine if they were representative 
of the population of Medicaid provider pharmacies. Since the overall response rate of the 
surveyed pharmacies was less than 100 percent, the possibility of bias in the response rate 
should be considered. To measure the likelihood of this possible bias, chi-square (χ2) tests were 
performed. A χ2 test evaluates differences between proportions for two or more groups in a data 
set. 
Of the 1,862 usable cost surveys, 1,286 were from chain pharmacies and 576 were from non-
chain pharmacies. There was a response rate of 81.7% for chain pharmacies compared to a 
response rate of 58.5% for independent pharmacies. The results of the χ2 test indicated that the 
difference in response rate between chain and independent pharmacies was statistically 
significant at the 5% confidence level. This implies that non-chain pharmacies were 
underrepresented in the sample of usable surveys received. No adjustments to the cost of 
dispensing data were made as a result of this observation. 
A χ2 test was also performed with respect to the urban versus rural location for responding 
pharmacies that were located in the state of Michigan. Of the 2,395 non-exempt pharmacies 
9 For purposes of this survey, a chain was defined as an organization having five or more pharmacies under common ownership or 
control on a national level. 
10 For measurements that refer to the urban or rural location of a pharmacy, Myers and Stauffer used the county of the pharmacies’ 
location and tables from the U.S. Census Bureau to determine if the pharmacy was located in a Metropolitan Statistical Area 
(MSA). Pharmacies in an MSA were assigned an “urban” location flag; other pharmacies were assigned a “rural” location flag. 
--- Page 13 ---
www.mslc.com  page 12 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
located in the state of Michigan, 1,978 pharmacies (or 83%) were located in an urban area. The 
remaining 417 pharmacies (or 17%) were located in a rural area. The number of pharmacies that 
returned a completed survey from an urban location was 1,456 (a response rate of 73.6%) and 
the number of pharmacies that returned a completed survey from a rural location was 303 (a 
response rate of 72.7%). The results of the χ2 test indicated that the difference in response rate 
between urban and rural pharmacy locations (within the state) was not statistically significant at 
the 5% confidence level and therefore was a statistically representative sample. 
Review Procedures 
A desk review was performed for 100% of surveys received. This review identified incomplete 
cost surveys and pharmacies submitting these incomplete cost surveys were contacted by 
telephone and/or email to obtain information necessary for completion. The desk review process 
also incorporated a number of tests to determine the reasonableness of the reported data. In 
many instances, pharmacies were contacted to correct or provide confirmation of reported survey 
data that was indicated for review as a result of these tests for reasonableness. 
Cost Finding Procedures 
For all pharmacies, the basic formula used to determine the average dispensing cost per 
prescription was to calculate the total dispensing-related cost and divide it by the total number of 
prescriptions dispensed: 
Determining the result of this equation can be complex since not all reported costs were strictly 
related to the prescription dispensing function of the pharmacy. Most pharmacies are also 
engaged in lines of business other than the dispensing of prescription drugs. For example, many 
pharmacies have a retail business with sales of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs and other non-
medical items. Some pharmacies are involved in the sale of durable medical equipment. The 
existence of these other lines of business necessitates that procedures be taken to isolate the 
costs involved in the prescription dispensing function of the pharmacy. 
Cost finding is the process of recasting cost data using rules or formulas in order to accomplish 
an objective. In this study, the objective is to estimate the cost of dispensing prescriptions to 
Medicaid members. To accomplish this objective, some pharmacy costs must be allocated 
between the prescription dispensing function and other business activities. This process identified 
the reasonable and allowable costs necessary for prescription dispensing to Medicaid members. 
Dispensing cost consists of two main components: overhead and labor. The cost finding rules 
employed to determine each of these components are described in the following sections. 
Dispensed
ons
Prescripti
of
Number 
Total
Cost
Related
Dispensing
)
(Allowable
Total
Cost 
Dispensing
Average
=
--- Page 14 ---
www.mslc.com  page 13 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Overhead Costs 
Overhead cost per prescription was calculated by summing the allocated overhead of each 
pharmacy and dividing this sum by the number of prescriptions dispensed. Overhead expenses 
that were reported for the entire pharmacy were allocated to the prescription department based 
on one of the following methods: 
 
Sales ratio – prescription sales divided by total sales. 
 
Area ratio – prescription department floor space (in square feet) divided by total floor 
space. 
 
All, or 100% – overhead costs that are entirely related to prescription functions. 
 
None, or 0% – overhead costs that are entirely related to non-prescription functions. 
Overhead costs that were considered entirely prescription-related include: 
 
Prescription department licenses. 
 
Prescription delivery expense. 
 
Prescription computer expense. 
 
Prescription containers and labels (For many pharmacies the costs associated with 
prescription containers and labels are captured in their cost of goods sold. 
Subsequently, it was often the case that a pharmacy was unable to report expenses 
for prescription containers and labels. In order to maintain consistency, a minimum 
allowance for prescription containers and labels was determined to use for 
pharmacies that did not report an expense amount for containers and labels. The 
allowance was set at the 95th percentile of prescription containers and labels expense 
per prescription for pharmacies that did report prescription containers and labels 
expense: $0.46 per prescription). 
 
Certain other expenses that were separately identified on Lines (31a) to (31t) of Page 
7 11 of the cost survey (Exhibit 1). 
Overhead costs that were not allocated as a prescription expense include: 
 
Income taxes 12 
11 “Other” expenses were analyzed to determine the appropriate basis for allocation of each expense: sales ratio, area ratio, 100% 
related to dispensing cost or 0% (not allocated). 
12 Income taxes are not considered an operational cost because they are based upon the profit of the pharmacy operation. 
Although a separate line was provided for the state income taxes of corporate filers, these costs were not included in this study as a 
prescription cost. This provides equal treatment to each pharmacy, regardless of the type of ownership. 
--- Page 15 ---
www.mslc.com  page 14 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
 
Bad debts 13 
 
Advertising 14 
 
Charitable Contributions 15 
 
Certain costs reported on Lines (31a) through (31t) of Page 7 of the cost survey 
(Exhibit 1) were occasionally excluded if the expense was not related to the 
dispensing of prescription drugs. 
The remaining expenses were assumed to be related to both prescription and nonprescription 
sales. Joint cost allocation is necessary to avoid understating or overstating the cost of filling a 
prescription. 
Those overhead costs allocated on the area ratio (as previously defined) include: 
 
Depreciation 
 
Real estate taxes 
 
Rent 16 
 
Repairs 
 
Utilities 
13 The exclusion of bad debts from the calculation of dispensing costs is consistent with Medicare cost reporting principles. See 
Provider Reimbursement Manual, CMS Pub.15-1, Section 304. “The allowance of unrecovered costs attributable to such bad debts 
in the calculation of reimbursement by the Program results from the expressed intent of Congress that the costs of services 
covered by the Program will not be borne by individuals not covered, and the costs of services not covered by the Program will not 
be borne by the Program.” It is recognized that some bad debts may be the result of Medicaid co-payments that were not collected. 
However, it was not possible to isolate the amount of bad debts attributable to uncollected Medicaid co-payments from the survey 
data. Additionally, there may be programmatic policy reasons to exclude uncollected Medicaid co-payments from the calculation of 
the cost of dispensing. Inclusion of cost for uncollected co-payments in the dispensing fee might serve to remove incentives for 
pharmacies to collect Medicaid co-payments when applicable. Given that co-payments were established to bring about some 
measure of cost containment, it may not be in the best interest of a Medicaid pharmacy program to allow uncollected co-payments 
to essentially be recaptured in a pharmacy dispensing fee. 
14 The exclusion of most types of advertising expense is consistent with Medicare cost reporting principles. See Provider 
Reimbursement Manual, CMS Pub. 15.1, Section 2136.2. “Costs of advertising to the general public which seeks to increase 
patient utilization of the provider's facilities are not allowable.” 
15 Individual proprietors and partners are not allowed to deduct charitable contributions as a business expense for federal income 
tax purposes. Any contributions made by their business are deducted along with personal contributions as itemized deductions. 
However, corporations are allowed to deduct contributions as a business expense for federal income tax purposes. Thus, while 
Line 13 on the cost report recorded the business contributions of a corporation, none of these costs were allocated as a 
prescription expense. This provides equal treatment for each type of ownership. 
16 The survey instrument included special instructions for reporting rent and requested that pharmacies report “ownership expenses 
of interest, taxes, insurance and maintenance if building is leased from a related party”. This treatment of related-party expenses is 
consistent with Medicare cost reporting principles. See Provider Reimbursement Manual, CMS Pub. 15-2, Section 3614: “Cost 
applicable to home office costs, services, facilities, and supplies furnished to you by organizations related to you by common 
ownership or control are includable in your allowable cost at the cost to the related organizations. However, such cost must not 
exceed the amount a prudent and cost conscious buyer pays for comparable services, facilities, or supplies that are purchased 
elsewhere.” 
--- Page 16 ---
www.mslc.com  page 15 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
The costs in these categories were considered a function of floor space.17 The floor space ratio 
was increased by a factor of 2.0 from that reported on the original cost survey to allow for waiting 
and counseling areas for patients and prescription department office area. The resulting ratio was 
adjusted downward, when necessary, not to exceed the sales ratio (in order to avoid allocating 
100% of these costs in the instance where the prescription department occupies the majority of 
the area of the store). 
Overhead costs allocated using the sales ratio include: 
 
Personal property taxes 
 
Other taxes 
 
Insurance 
 
Interest 
 
Accounting and legal fees 
 
Telephone and supplies 
 
Dues and publications 
Labor Costs 
Labor costs are calculated by allocating total salaries, payroll taxes, and benefits based on the 
percent of time spent in the prescription department. The allocations for each labor category were 
summed and then divided by the number of prescriptions dispensed to calculate labor cost per 
prescription. There are various classifications of salaries and wages requested on the cost survey 
(Lines (1) to (12) of Page 6 of the cost survey – Exhibit 1) due to the different cost treatment 
given to each labor classification. 
Although some employee pharmacists spent a portion of their time performing nonprescription 
duties, it was assumed in this study that their economic productivity when performing 
nonprescription functions was less than their productivity when performing prescription duties. 
The total salaries, payroll taxes, and benefits of employee pharmacists were multiplied by a factor 
based upon the percent of prescription time. Therefore, a higher percentage of salaries, payroll 
taxes, and benefits was allocated to prescription labor costs than would have been allocated if a 
simple percent of time allocation were utilized. Specifically, the percent of prescription time 
indicated was adjusted by the following formula: 18 
17 Allocation of certain expenses using a ratio based on square footage is consistent with Medicare cost reporting principles. See 
Provider Reimbursement Manual, CMS Pub. 15-2, Section 3617. 
18 Example: An employee pharmacist spends 90 percent of his/her time in the prescription department. The 90 percent factor 
would be modified to 95 percent: (2)(0.9)/(1+0.9) = 0.95. Thus, 95 percent of the reported salaries, payroll taxes, and benefits 
would be allocated to the prescription department. It should be noted that most employee pharmacists spent 100 percent of their 
time in the prescription department. 
--- Page 17 ---
www.mslc.com  page 16 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
))
(%
1(
)
)(%
2
(
Time
Rx
Time
Rx
+
The allocation of salaries, payroll taxes, and benefits for all other prescription employees (Lines 
(2) to (12) of Page 6 of the cost survey – Exhibit 1) was based directly upon the percentage of 
time spent in the prescription department as indicated on the individual cost survey. For example, 
if the reported percentage of prescription time was 75 percent and total salaries were $10,000, 
then the allocated prescription cost would be $7,500. 
Owner Compensation Issues 
Since compensation reported for owners are not costs that have arisen from arm’s length 
negotiations, they are not similar to other costs. Accordingly, limitations were placed upon the 
allocated salaries, payroll taxes, and benefits of owners. A pharmacy owner has a different 
approach toward other expenses than toward his/her own salary. In fact, owners often pay 
themselves above the market costs of securing the services of an employee. Owners who pay 
themselves above market cost effectively represent a withdrawal of business profits, not a cost of 
dispensing. However, owners who underpay themselves for business reasons also misrepresent 
the true dispensing cost. 
To estimate the cost that would have been incurred had an employee been hired to perform the 
prescription-related functions actually performed by the owner, upper and lower limits were 
imposed on owner salaries. For purposes of setting owner’s compensation limits, owners who are 
pharmacists were considered separately from owners who are not pharmacists. Constraints for 
owners were set using upper and lower thresholds for hourly compensation that represented 
approximately the 95th and 40th percentiles of employee salaries for pharmacists and non-
pharmacists (adjusted by reported FTEs to estimate hourly wages). 
Table 2.2 Hourly Wage Limits for Owners 
A sensitivity analysis of the owner labor limits was performed in order to determine the impact of 
the limits on the overall analysis of pharmacy dispensing cost. Of the 1,862 pharmacies in the 
cost analysis, owner limits impacted 252 pharmacies, or 13.5%. Of these, 129 pharmacies had 
costs reduced as a result of application of these limits (on the basis that a portion of owner salary 
“cost” appeared to represent a withdrawal of profits from the business), and 123 pharmacies had 
costs increased as a result of the limits (on the basis that owner salaries appeared to be below 
their market value). Although the cost of dispensing calculated for individual stores was adjusted 
by this process, the overall change to the final estimate of average pharmacy dispensing cost per 
prescription for all stores from applying owner salary limits was negligible. In total, the final 
estimate of average pharmacy dispensing cost per prescription was decreased by approximately 
$0.027 as a result of the owner salary limits. 
Owner Type 
Lower Limit 
(Hourly) 
Upper Limit 
(Hourly) 
Pharmacist 
$49.87 
$75.60 
Non-Pharmacist 
$13.11 
$40.89 
--- Page 18 ---
www.mslc.com  page 17 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Overall Labor Cost Constraints 
An overall constraint was placed on the proportion of total reported labor that could be allocated 
as prescription labor. The constraint assumes that a functional relationship exists between the 
proportion of allocated prescription labor to total labor and the proportion of prescription sales to 
total sales. It is also assumed that a higher input of labor costs is necessary to generate 
prescription sales than nonprescription sales, within limits. 
The parameters of the applied labor constraint are based upon an examination of data submitted 
by all pharmacies. These parameters are set in such a way that any resulting adjustment affects 
only those pharmacies with a percentage of prescription labor deemed unreasonable. For 
instance, the constraint would come into play for an operation that reported 75 percent pharmacy 
sales and 100 percent pharmacy labor (obviously, some labor must be devoted to generating the 
25 percent nonprescription sales). 
To determine the maximum percentage of total labor allowed, the following calculation was made: 
A sensitivity analysis of the labor cost restraint was performed in order to determine the impact of 
the limit on the overall analysis of pharmacy cost. The analysis indicates that of the 1,862 
pharmacies included in the dispensing cost analysis, this limit was applied to 150 pharmacies. In 
total, the final estimate of average pharmacy dispensing cost per prescription was decreased by 
approximately $0.069 as a result of the labor cost restraint. 
Impact of New Licensure Requirements for Pharmacy 
Technicians 
In 2014, the Michigan Legislature enacted changes to the Michigan Public Health Code (1978 PA 
368) Section 333.17739 which impacted pharmacy technicians in the state of Michigan. These 
changes require that pharmacy technicians be licensed and sets requirements for pharmacy 
technician continuing education (20 hours over a two-year period). During the course of the cost 
of dispensing survey, some concerns have been noted by representatives of the Michigan 
pharmacy industry that these licensure changes will cause pharmacies to incur increased costs 
for pharmacy technician licensing fees and costs for pharmacy technician continuing education. 
However, since the change did not go into effect until October 1, 2015, the full impact of the 
licensing fees and continuing education expenses might not be included in the financial data 
collected from pharmacies, since pharmacies were instructed to submit data using their most 
recently completed fiscal year. 
To estimate the potential impact of these additional costs, Myers and Stauffer reviewed data on 
the average number of pharmacy technicians employed at pharmacies that submitted survey 
Ratio)
)(Sales
.
(
.
Ratio)
(Sales
.
2
0
1
0
3
0
+
--- Page 19 ---
www.mslc.com  page 18 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
data. There were approximately 800 non-specialty pharmacies located in the state of Michigan 
that reported useable data on the number of full time equivalent (FTE) technicians working in the 
pharmacy (not all pharmacies reported FTE data). For these stores, the median number of 
technicians reported was 2.5 FTEs (mean of 3.9 FTEs). For these same stores, the average total 
prescription volume was approximately 61,000. (The average total prescription volume for all non-
specialty pharmacies in Michigan was approximately 64,000). 
Using a rough estimate of the licensing and continuing education cost (employee time and course 
fees) of $300 per technician per year (i.e., annual license fees and 10 hours of continuing 
education), we estimate that the total impact on the cost of dispensing per prescription is 
approximately $0.015. Myers and Stauffer has not adjusted the cost of dispensing observed in 
the survey data by this estimate. 
Inflation Factors 
All allocated costs for overhead and labor were totaled and multiplied by an inflation factor. 
Inflation factors are intended to reflect cost changes from the middle of the reporting period of a 
particular pharmacy to a common fiscal period ending December 31, 2016 (specifically from the 
midpoint of the pharmacy’s fiscal year to June 30, 2016 which is the midpoint of the fiscal period 
ending December 31, 2016). The midpoint and terminal month indices used were taken from the 
Employment Cost Index, (all civilian, all workers; seasonally adjusted) published by the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics (BLS) (Exhibit 5). The use of inflation factors is preferred in order for pharmacy 
cost data from various fiscal years to be compared uniformly. The majority of submitted cost 
surveys were based on a fiscal year which ended on or within two months of December 31, 2015. 
Although the survey methodology incorporates short term inflation adjustments to account for the 
varying fiscal year ends dates associated with the data submitted by pharmacies, it is not 
necessarily the case that long-term inflation adjustments need to be considered for purposes of 
setting the professional dispensing fee to be used within a Medicaid program. Inflationary 
pressures do impact the input costs pharmacies incur in their operations. However, these 
increased input costs appear to have been offset in recent years by gains in pharmacy efficiency. 
In every cost of dispensing survey Myers and Stauffer has performed and studies performed by 
other parties, the total volume of prescriptions dispensed and the average cost of dispensing at 
an individual pharmacy have been inversely correlated. This means, on average, stores that 
dispense more prescriptions will have a lower cost of dispensing relative to stores that dispense 
fewer prescriptions. 
In general, pharmacy total prescription volume has been on an upward trend. In the early 2000’s 
many pharmacy chains were frequently opening new stores. These new stores started with a 
relatively small customer base and with corresponding low prescription volumes. This time period 
coincided with a period in which there was a shortage of available pharmacists and pharmacist 
salaries were increasing sharply. However, over time, the growth of new pharmacies has slowed 
and stores which were new ten or more years ago have built their customer base and increased 
their overall prescription volume. The pharmacist shortage appears to have passed. 
--- Page 20 ---
www.mslc.com  page 19 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Additionally, in recent years, many pharmacies have implemented changes to business 
operations that have increased efficiency. For example, more pharmacies are participating in e-
prescribing, central fill dispensing and the use of automated dispensing. These changes have 
made pharmacists and other pharmacy staff more efficient at dispensing medications. All of these 
trends have resulted in gains in efficiency, and have curtailed the rate of increase in the average 
cost of dispensing on a per prescription basis. 
Myers and Stauffer has performed multiple cost of dispensing studies since 2010 and in most of 
these surveys we have observed a pattern of either very little increase or a slight decrease in the 
cost of dispensing per prescription. This phenomenon has been observed by other parties as 
well. For example, national studies of the pharmacy cost of dispensing were sponsored by the 
National Community Pharmacists Association (NCPA) and the National Association of Chain 
Drug Stores (NACDS) and conducted in 2006 and 2015. The study performed in 2006 reported a 
national average cost of dispensing of $10.50 and the study performed in 2015 cited a national 
average cost of dispensing of $10.55, or a $0.05 increase in the average cost of dispensing over 
a nine year period. 
Dispensing Cost Analysis and Findings 
The dispensing costs for surveyed pharmacies are summarized in the following tables and 
paragraphs. Findings for pharmacies are presented collectively, and additionally are presented 
for subsets of the surveyed population based on pharmacy characteristics. 
There are several statistical measurements that may be used to express the central tendency of a 
distribution, the most common of which are the mean and the median. Findings are presented in 
the forms of means and medians, both weighted and unweighted. 
The measures of central tendency used in this report include the following: 
Unweighted mean: the arithmetic average cost for all pharmacies. 
Weighted mean: the average cost of all prescriptions dispensed by surveyed 
pharmacies, weighted by prescription volume. The resulting number is the average cost 
for all prescriptions, rather than the average for all pharmacies as in the unweighted 
mean. This implies that low volume pharmacies have a smaller impact on the weighted 
average than high volume pharmacies. This approach, in effect, sums all costs from 
surveyed pharmacies and divides that sum by the total of all prescriptions from surveyed 
pharmacies. The weighting factor can be either total prescription volume or Medicaid 
prescription volume. 
Median: the value that divides a set of observations (such as dispensing cost) in half. In 
the case of this survey, the median is the dispensing cost such that the cost of one half of 
the pharmacies in the set are less than or equal to the median and the dispensing costs 
of the other half are greater than or equal to the median. 
Weighted Median: this is determined by finding the pharmacy observation that 
encompasses the middle value prescription. The implication is that one half of the 
--- Page 21 ---
www.mslc.com  page 20 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
prescriptions were dispensed at a cost of the weighted median or less, and one half were 
dispensed at the cost of the weighted median or more. Suppose, for example, that there 
were 1,000,000 Medicaid prescriptions dispensed by the surveyed pharmacies. If the 
pharmacies were arrayed in order of dispensing cost, the median weighted by Medicaid 
volume, is the dispensing cost of the pharmacy that dispensed the middle, or 500,000th 
prescription. 
For both weighted means and weighted medians, the use of Medicaid prescription volume as the 
weighting factor is particularly meaningful for consideration in determining appropriate 
reimbursement since it emphasizes the cost of dispensing from those pharmacies that dispense 
more significant volumes of Medicaid prescriptions. 
As is typically the case with dispensing cost surveys, statistical “outliers” are a common 
occurrence. These outlier pharmacies have dispensing costs that are not typical of the majority of 
pharmacies. Medians are sometimes preferred to averages (i.e., the arithmetic mean) in 
situations where the magnitude of outlier values results in an average that does not represent 
what is thought of as “average” or normal in the common sense. 
For all pharmacies, findings are presented in Table 2.3. 
Table 2.3 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – All Pharmacies 
Dispensing Cost 
Unweighted Mean 
$18.11 
Mean Weighted by Medicaid Volume 
$11.39 
Unweighted Median 
$10.82 
Median Weighted by Medicaid Volume 
$9.90 
n=1,862 pharmacies 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
See Exhibit 6 for a histogram of the dispensing cost for all pharmacies. There was a large range 
between the highest and the lowest dispensing cost observed. However, the majority of 
pharmacies (approximately 85%) had average dispensing costs between $7 and $17. 
Exhibit 7 includes a statistical summary with a wide variety of measures of pharmacy dispensing 
cost with breakdowns for many pharmacy attributes potentially of interest. For measurements that 
refer to the urban or rural location of a pharmacy, Myers and Stauffer used the county of the 
pharmacies’ locations and tables from the U.S. Census Bureau to determine if the pharmacy was 
located in a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). Pharmacies in an MSA were assigned an 
“urban” location flag; other pharmacies were assigned a “rural” location flag. A table of counties 
and their designation as urban or rural is included in Exhibit 8. 
--- Page 22 ---
www.mslc.com  page 21 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Specialty Pharmacies 
Several pharmacies included in the cost analysis were identified as specialty pharmacies, which 
for purposes of this report are those pharmacies that reported sales for intravenous, home 
infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total prescription sales. 
The analysis revealed significantly higher cost of dispensing associated with pharmacies that 
provided significant levels of these services.19 
The difference in dispensing costs that were observed for providers of specialty services 
compared to those pharmacies that did not offer these specialty services is summarized in Table 
2.4. 
Table 2.4 Dispensing Cost per Prescription - Specialty versus Other Pharmacies 
n= 1,862 pharmacies 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
Pharmacies that dispense specialty prescriptions as a significant part of their business often have 
dispensing costs in excess of those found in a traditional pharmacy. As part of the survey, 
pharmacies that dispense specialty drugs were requested to provide a breakdown of sales and 
prescriptions dispensed for categories of specialty products dispensed. Based on the data 
obtained on the survey, Myers and Stauffer categorized specialty pharmacies into three primary 
categories: 
• 
Pharmacies that dispense blood factor products. 
19 In every pharmacy cost of dispensing study in which information on specialty, intravenous solution and home infusion dispensing 
activity has been collected by Myers and Stauffer, such activity has been found to be associated with higher dispensing costs. 
Discussions with pharmacists providing these services indicate that the activities and costs involved for specialty, intravenous and 
infusion prescriptions are significantly different from the costs incurred by other pharmacies. The reasons for this difference include: 
• 
Costs of special equipment for mixing and storage of specialty, intravenous and infusion products. 
• 
Costs of additional services relating to patient education, compliance programs, monitoring, reporting and other support for 
specialty, intravenous and infusion products. 
• 
Higher direct labor costs because many specialty, intravenous and infusion prescriptions must be prepared in the pharmacy. 
• 
There is often inconsistency in the manner in which prescriptions are counted for intravenous and infusion products. For these 
products, a pharmacy may mix and deliver many “dispensings” of a daily intravenous or home infusion from a single prescription, 
counting it in their records as only one prescription. This results in dispensing costs being spread over a number of prescriptions 
that is smaller than if the pharmacy had counted each refill as an additional prescription. 
Type of Pharmacy 
Number of 
Pharmacies 
Average Total 
Annual 
Prescription 
Volume 
(mean and 
median) 
Average 
Medicaid 
Prescription 
Volume 
(mean and 
median) 
Unweighted 
Mean 
Mean 
Weighted 
by Medicaid 
Volume 
Specialty 
Pharmacies 
138 
Mean: 319,285 
Median: 36,004 
Mean: 4,522 
Median: 1,602 
$92.54 
$20.02 
Other Pharmacies 
1,724 
Mean: 72,109 
Median: 55,471 
Mean: 4,127 
Median:3,206 
$12.15 
$10.64 
--- Page 23 ---
www.mslc.com  page 22 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
• 
Pharmacies that provide compounded infusion and other custom-prepared 
intravenous products. 
• 
Pharmacies that provide other specialty products (e.g., prefilled injectable 
products or oral specialty medications). 
Some pharmacies dispensed products which included more than one category of services 
described above. However, for purposes of analysis, Myers and Stauffer organized pharmacies 
using a hierarchical approach giving priority in the order of 1) dispensing blood factor products 
and 2) dispensing compounded infusion or other custom-prepared intravenous products. The cost 
of dispensing results for these categories of specialty pharmacies is summarized in Table 2.5. 
Table 2.5 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – Categories of Specialty Pharmacies 
Type of Pharmacy 
Number of 
Pharmacies 
Average Total 
Annual 
Prescription 
Volume 
(mean and 
median) 
Average 
Medicaid 
Prescription 
Volume 
(mean and 
median) 
Unweighted 
Mean 
Mean 
Weighted 
by Medicaid 
Volume 
Blood Factor 
11 
Mean: 16,287 
Median: 6,290 
Mean: 371 
Median: 166 
$621.68 
$377.45 
Compounded 
Infusion / 
Intravenous 
Products 
16 
Mean: 108,068 
Median: 16,085
Mean: 925 
Median: 117 
$98.71 
$24.95 
Other Specialty 
Pharmacies 
111 
Mean: 379,758 
Median: 45,107 
Mean: 5,452 
Median: 2,414 
$39.21 
$17.48 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
n= 138 pharmacies 
Non-specialty Pharmacies 
The analyses summarized in Tables 2.6 through 2.10 below exclude the specialty pharmacy 
providers. In making this exclusion, no representation is made that the cost structure of those 
pharmacies is not important to understand. However, it is reasonable to address issues relevant 
to those pharmacies separately from the cost structure of the vast majority of pharmacy providers 
that provide “traditional” pharmacy services. Table 2.6 restates the measurements noted in Table 
2.3 excluding pharmacies that dispensed significant volumes of specialty prescriptions. 
--- Page 24 ---
www.mslc.com  page 23 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Table 2.6 Dispensing Cost per Prescription – Excluding Specialty Pharmacies 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
n=1,724 pharmacies 
Relationship of Dispensing Cost with Prescription Volume 
There is a significant correlation between a pharmacy’s total prescription volume and the 
dispensing cost per prescription. This result is not surprising because many of the costs 
associated with a business operation, including the dispensing of prescriptions, have a fixed 
component that does not vary significantly with increased volume. For stores with a higher total 
prescription volume, these fixed costs are spread over a greater number of prescriptions resulting 
in lower costs per prescription. A number of relatively low volume pharmacies in the survey skew 
the distribution of dispensing cost and increase the measurement of the unweighted average 
(mean) cost of dispensing. Means and medians weighted by either Medicaid volume or total 
prescription volume may provide a more realistic measurement of typical dispensing cost. 
Pharmacies were classified into meaningful groups based upon their differences in total 
prescription volume. Dispensing costs were then analyzed based upon these volume 
classifications. Table 2.7 displays the calculated cost of dispensing for non-specialty pharmacies 
arrayed into tiers based on total annual prescription volume. Table 2.8 provides statistics for 
pharmacy annual prescription volume. 
Table 2.7 Dispensing Cost by Pharmacy Total Annual Prescription Volume 
Total Annual 
Prescription 
Volume of 
Pharmacy 
Number of 
Pharmacies A 
Unweighted 
Mean 
Mean 
Weighted by 
Medicaid 
Volume 
0 to 44,999 
614 
$15.92 
$14.12 
45,000 to 79,999 
648 
$10.64 
$10.40 
80,000 and Higher 
462 
$9.28 
$9.44 
n= 1,724 pharmacies 
A Excludes specialty pharmacies, which for purposes of this report are those pharmacies that reported 
sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total 
prescription sales. 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
Dispensing Cost 
Unweighted Mean 
$12.15 
Mean Weighted by Medicaid Volume 
$10.64 
Unweighted Median 
$10.65 
Median Weighted by Medicaid Volume 
$9.79 
--- Page 25 ---
www.mslc.com  page 24 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Table 2.8 Statistics for Pharmacy Total Annual Prescription Volume 
n= 1,724 pharmacies 
A Excludes specialty pharmacies, which for purposes of this report are those pharmacies that reported 
sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total 
prescription sales. 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
A histogram of pharmacy total annual prescription volume and a scatter-plot of the relationship 
between dispensing cost per prescription and total prescription volume are included in Exhibit 9. 
Other Observations Associated with Dispensing Cost and 
Pharmacy Attributes 
The dispensing cost of the surveyed pharmacies was broken down into the various components 
of overhead and labor related costs. Table 2.9 displays the means of the various cost 
components for surveyed pharmacies. Labor-related expenses accounted for approximately 72% 
of overall prescription dispensing costs. 
Expenses in Table 2.9 are classified as follows: 
 
Owner professional labor – owner’s labor costs were subject to constraints in 
recognition of its special circumstances as previously noted. 
 
Employee professional labor consists of employee pharmacists. Other labor includes 
the cost of delivery persons, interns, technicians, clerks and any other employee with 
time spent performing the prescription dispensing function of the pharmacy. 
 
Building and equipment expense includes depreciation, rent, building ownership 
costs, repairs, utilities and any other expenses related to building and equipment. 
 
Prescription-specific expense includes pharmacist-related dues and subscriptions, 
prescription containers and labels, prescription-specific computer expenses, 
prescription-specific delivery expenses (other than direct labor costs) and any other 
expenses that are specific to the prescription dispensing function of the pharmacy. 
 
Other overhead expenses consist of all other expenses that were allocated to the 
prescription dispensing function of the pharmacy including interest, insurance, 
telephone, and legal and professional fees. 
Statistic 
Value A 
Mean 
72,109 
Standard Deviation 
127,392 
10th Percentile 
21,482 
25th Percentile 
35,854 
Median 
55,471 
75th Percentile 
81,979 
90th Percentile 
122,400 
--- Page 26 ---
www.mslc.com  page 25 
DISPENSING COST 
SURVEY AND ANALYSIS
Table 2.9 Components of Prescription Dispensing Cost 
n= 1,724 pharmacies 
A Excludes specialty pharmacies, which for purposes of this report are those pharmacies that reported 
sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total 
prescription sales. 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
A chart of the components of prescription dispensing cost is provided in Exhibit 10. 
In addition to pharmacy dispensing cost data, several pharmacy attributes were collected on the 
cost survey. A summary of those attributes is provided at Exhibit 11. 
Expenses Not Allocated to the Cost of Dispensing 
In the following Table 2.10, measurements are provided for certain expenses that were not 
included in the cost of dispensing. Reasons for not including these costs were discussed 
previously in the report. For all of the expenses below, average cost per prescription was 
calculated using a sales ratio as the basis for allocation. 
Table 2.10 Non-Allocated Expenses per Prescription 
Expense Category 
Mean 
Weighted 
by 
Medicaid 
Volume A 
Bad Debts 
$0.053
Charitable Contributions 
$0.011
Advertising 
$0.272
Credit Card Processing Fees 
$0.162
Other Non-allowed Expenses 
$0.161
n= 1,724 pharmacies 
A Excludes specialty pharmacies, which for purposes of this report are those pharmacies that reported 
sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total 
prescription sales. 
(Dispensing costs have been inflated to the common point of June 30, 2016) 
Type of Expense 
Mean Weighted 
by Medicaid 
Volume A 
Owner Professional Labor 
$0.586 
Employee Professional and Other Labor 
$6.586 
Building and Equipment 
$1.019 
Prescription Specific Expenses (including delivery) 
$0.846 
Other Overhead Expenses 
$1.598 
Total 
$10.635 
--- Page 27 ---
Exhibit 1 
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of 
Dispensing Survey 
--- Page 28 ---
M&S Use Only
Prov. No. (NPI)
Telephone No.
Fax No.
City
County
State
Zip Code
_______________
Preparer's Street Address
City and State
Zip
Phone Number
Email Address
All Medicaid pharmacies are required to complete all pages of this survey unless you meet the following criteria:
1. □  New pharmacies that were in business less than six months during the most recently completed reporting period.
Date pharmacy opened
2. □  Pharmacies with a change in ownership that resulted in less than six months in business during the reporting period.
Date pharmacy changed ownership
Name of Pharmacy
(         )
Street Address
(         )
An electronic version of the Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Program Cost of Dispensing Survey is available. The electronic version is in 
Excel format. The electronic version aids the user by calculating totals and transfering information to the reconciliation to help ensure 
the accuracy of the data. Please send an email to disp_survey@mslc.com to request the electronic version of the survey. Completed 
surveys can be returned via email to disp_survey@mslc.com.
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Complete and return by August 31, 2016
ROUND ALL AMOUNTS TO NEAREST DOLLAR OR WHOLE NUMBER
Call toll free (800) 374‐6858 or email disp_survey@mslc.com if you have any questions.
DECLARATION BY OWNER AND PREPARER
I declare that I have examined this cost survey including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my knowledge and 
belief, it is true, correct, complete, and in agreement with the related financial statements or federal income tax return, except as 
explained in the reconciliation.   Declaration of preparer (other than owner) is based on all information of which preparer has any 
knowledge.
DECLARATION OF EXEMPTION
Signature of Owner                                                          Printed Name                                                          Title/Position                                            Date
_______________________________    __________________________       ______________________    _______________
If your pharmacy meets either of the above criteria, check the box next to the explanation describing your situation and report the relevant date. Pharmacies which are 
considered "exempt" do not need to complete the remaining portions of the survey. If you have any questions as to the status of your pharmacy please call Myers and Stauffer 
at (800)374‐6858 or email disp_survey@mslc.com for assistance.
_______________________________    __________________________       ______________________    _______________
_______________________________________________
______________________________
(_______)____________________
_____________________________________________
Preparer's Signature (if other than owner)                Printed Name                                                          Title/Position                                            Date
Return Completed Forms to:
Myers and Stauffer LC
700 W. 47th Street, Suite 1100
Kansas City, Missouri 64112
--- Page 29 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
SECTION IA ‐‐ PHARMACY ATTRIBUTES
Page 2
The following information is from fiscal / tax year ending
All Pharmacies should complete lines (a) through (l).
List the total number of all prescriptions dispensed during your most recently completed fiscal year as follows:
1. New
2. Refill
3. Total
(b)
Sales and Floor Space
Sales (Excluding Sales Tax)
Cost of Goods Sold
1. Medicaid (fee for service)
%
3. Cash
%
2. Other 3rd Party (including Medicaid MCO)
%
1. Medicaid (fee for service)
%
3. Cash
%
2. Other 3rd Party (including Medicaid MCO)
%
Ownership Affiliation
1. □  Independent (1 to 4 units)
2. □  Chain (5 or more units) Total stores:____________
3. □  InsƟtuƟonal (service to LTC faciliƟes only)
4. □  Other (specify) _____________________________
Type of Ownership
1. □  Individual
2. □  CorporaƟon
3. □  Partnership
4. □  Other (specify) __________
1. □  Medical Oﬃce Building
2. □  Shopping Center
3. □  Stand Alone Building
4. □  Grocery Store / Mass Merchant
5. □  OutpaƟent Hospital
6. □  Other (specify) _________
(d)
(e)
(f)
Location of Pharmacy (please check one)
Sq. Ft.
Sq. Ft.
(c)
What is the approximate percentage of prescriptions dispensed for the following classifications?
What is the approximate percentage of payments received from the following classifications?
Store sales excluding sales tax.  Total store sales and cost of goods sold can usually be obtained from a financial statement or a federal income tax 
return (if the tax return only includes the store being surveyed). "Pharmacy Department" sales should only include sales of prescription drugs should not 
include non‐prescription over the counter drugs, durable medical equipment or other nonprescription items.  
Cost of Goods Sold. If pharmacy department cost of goods sold is not readily available, leave that line blank.
Floor Space. Provide square footage for pharmacy department dispensing area only and total store square footage. Since floor space will be used in 
allocating certain expenses, accuracy is important.  When measuring the total store, include only the retail area and exclude any storage area (e.g., 
basement, attic, off‐the‐premises areas or freight in‐out areas).  When measuring the prescription department, exclude patient waiting area, counseling 
area, prescription department office space and prescription department storage. These should be included in total store area. A factor will be added to 
the prescription department to account for waiting area, counseling area, prescription department office space and prescription department storage.
Complete these forms using your most recently completed fiscal year for which financial records are available and complete (e.g., 
December 31, 2015, or December 31, 2014, if 2015 records are not yet complete).  (Include month/day/year).
(a)
“Prescriptions Dispensed.”  Report the total number of all prescriptions filled during the fiscal year being reported on this cost survey.  This 
information may be kept on a daily or monthly log or on your computer.
Pharmacy Department 
Only
Total Store (Retail and 
Pharmacy Department)
Floor Space (see instructions below)
--- Page 30 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 3
SECTION IA ‐‐ PHARMACY ATTRIBUTES, CONTINUED
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
What percentage of drugs used for the Medicaid Pharmacy Program are purchased through the 340B program?
%
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
(i)
How many hours per week is your pharmacy open?  ___________ Hours
(j)
How many years has a pharmacy operated at this location? _____________ Years
(k)
Do you provide 24‐hour emergency services for pharmaceuticals?
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
(l)
What percentage of prescriptions dispensed were generic products?    _______%
(m)
Do you dispense in unit dose packaging to long‐term care facilities (e.g., medisets, blister packs, etc.)?
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
What is the approximate percent of all prescriptions dispensed in unit dose packaging? __________%
If you provide unit dose packaging, what percent of unit dose packaging is:
1. Purchased from manufacturers ______%
2. Prepared in the pharmacy _______%
(p)
What percent of total prescriptions filled are delivered? ______________%
(q)
What percent of Medicaid prescriptions filled are delivered? ______________%
Does your pharmacy deliver prescriptions by mail (U.S. Postal Service, FedEx, UPS, etc.)?
1. □  Yes
2. □  No
If yes, what is the approximate percentage of the total number of prescriptions that are delivered
by mail? ________%
Creams
Emulsions
Nasal Drops
Ointments
Other
What is the approximate percent of your prescriptions dispensed that are compounded? ________% 
(h)
Do you own your building or lease from a related party (i.e., yourself, family member, or related corporation)?  If so, mark yes 
and refer to special instructions for reporting building rent.
Suppositories
For prescriptions that are compounded, what is the average number of minutes spent preparing a prescription by pharmacists 
and technicians?       Pharmacist: ___________      Technician: ___________ 
Of the drugs that are compounded, indicate the approximate percentage that are the following types:
Optic Drugs
Compounded Capsules
Powders
(s)
(n)
(r)
SECTION IB ‐‐ If your pharmacy dispenses prescriptions to long‐term care facilities, complete lines 
(m) through (o) as applicable.
SECTION IC ‐‐ If your pharmacy provides delivery, mail order, specialty or compounding services, complete 
lines (p) through (s) as applicable.
(o)
What is the approximate percent of your prescriptions dispensed to long‐term care facilities or assisted living 
homes?________%
(g)
If yes, are prescriptions dispensed through the Medicaid Pharmacy Program provided from 340B inventory?
Does your pharmacy purchase drugs through the 340B Drug Pricing Program or the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS)?
--- Page 31 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 4
SECTION ID ‐‐ Professional Pharmacist Services
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
SECTION IE ‐‐ Other Information (OPTIONAL)
Consultation between pharmacist and beneficiary to improve medication adherence.
Indicate the approximate amount of hours per week that your pharmacy spends providing each of the following services:
Coordinating with prescriber to add or delete a medication from the beneficiary's drug regimen based on pharmacist's review 
of clinical guidelines, adverse drug reaction, etc.
List any additional information you feel contributes significantly to your cost of filling a prescription. Attach additional pages if needed.
Instructing a beneficiary on using a medication device (e.g.: inhaler, self‐administered syringe).
Medication reconciliation.
Other (place number of hours to the right and then describe these activities below, use additional pages if necessary).
Coordinating with prescriber to change dose, dosage form or duration of therapy based on pharmacists' review of age‐
appropriateness, drug‐drug interaction, manufacturer recommendations, organ function, sub‐optimal dosage form 
prescribed, etc.
--- Page 32 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 5
SECTION IF ‐‐ PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT BREAKDOWN FOR PHARMACIES DISPENSING SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
If yes, complete the product breakdown below. If you answer no, please continue to page 6.
(b)
Is the pharmacy a URAC‐accredited specialty pharmacy?      1. □  Yes                        2. □  No
Product Category
Number of Prescriptions
Dollar Amount of Sales
Line 
No.
Infusion Products
Compounded infusion products
(1a)
Total Parenteral Nutrition (TPN) products
(1b)
Blood factors or derivatives
(1c)
Infusion supplies (e.g., tubing, needles, 
catheter flushes, IV site dressings, etc.)
(1d)
Total for Infusion Products
(1e)
Specialty
Prefilled or ready to inject products
(2a)
Orals
(2b)
Total for Specialty
(2c)
Non‐specialty
Orals
(3a)
Topicals
(3b)
Injectables
(3c)
Compounded (non‐infusion)
(3d)
Total for Non‐specialty
Total 
(should reconcile to prescriptions and sales 
reported on Page 2)
(4)
Additional Pharmacy Attribute Questions for Pharmacies Dispensing Specialty Products
SECTION IG ‐‐ OTHER INFORMATION
Are you presently providing specialty products or services (e.g., intravenous, infusion, clotting factors or derivatives, other pre‐filled 
injectable or oral specialty products)?         1. □  Yes                        2. □  No
(a)
Use the section below to provide additional narrative description of the specialty products and services that are provided by your pharmacy.  Use this section 
to describe any patient  monitoring programs,  patient compliance programs, case management  services or disease management services provided by your 
pharmacy. Describe any specialized equipment used in your pharmacy. Attach additional pages as necessary.
If you answered yes to question (a) above, provide a breakdown of the specialty and non‐specialty products dispensed in your pharmacy using the categories 
described below or other categories as appropriate. Number of prescriptions dispensed and sales should match your fiscal reporting period for the cost 
survey and reconcile to prescriptions and sales reported on Page 2. You should also respond to the questions below the product breakdown regarding service 
provided in association with the dispensing of specialty products.
%
%
%
(a) What percentage of prescriptions dispensed were for products with REMS (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy) reporting 
requirements?
(b) What percentage of prescriptions dispensed were for products that had patient monitoring and compliance activities in place?
(c) What percentage of prescriptions dispensed were for products that had special storage requirements (e.g., refrigeration, etc.)?
--- Page 33 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 6
Percent of Time Spent
Employee Classification
Estimate of FTEs¹
Total Salaries (including bonuses 
and draws for owners)
Direct 
Prescription 
Dispensing 
Activities²
Other Clinical or 
Administrative 
(prescription 
department 
related)³
Other (not 
related to 
prescription 
department)
Total
(should 
equal 
100%)
Line No.
Owner: Registered Pharmacist (if 
applicable)
(1)
Owner: Non‐Pharmacist (if 
applicable)
(2)
Pharmacist
(3)
Technician
(4)
Delivery
(5)
Nurses
(6)
Customer service representatives
(7)
Billing
(8)
Other Admin
(9)
Contract Labor (Pharmacist)
(10)
Contract Labor (other)
(11)
Staff not related to RX dispensing
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%
100.0%
(12)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
² Direct Prescription Dispensing Activities as defined in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services final rule (2/1/2016) at §447.502 include the 
pharmacist time associated with ensuring that possession of the appropriate covered outpatient drug is transferred to a Medicaid beneficiary. This 
category includes, but is not limited to, a pharmacist's time in checking the computer for information about an individual's coverage, performing drug 
utilization review and preferred drug list review activities, measurement or mixing of the covered outpatient drug, filling the container, beneficiary 
counseling, physically providing the completed prescription to the Medicaid beneficiary, delivery, and special packaging.
³ Other Clinical or Administrative (prescription department related)  include, but are not limited to, time spent maintaining the facility and equipment 
necessary to operate the pharmacy, third party reimbursement claims management, ordering and stocking prescription ingredients, taking inventory 
and maintaining prescription files. 
SECTION IIA ‐‐ PERSONNEL COSTS
Other Employee Benefits (including employee medical insurance, 
disability insurance, education assistance, etc.)
¹ FTE: Full‐time Equivalent. Take the total number of weekly hours worked by job category and divide by 40 hours to determine the total number of full 
time equivalent positions. Answer can be a decimal. Round answer to nearest tenth.  Ex. 3 pharmacists, pharmacist 1 = 38 hours per week, pharmacist 
2 = 22 hours per week, pharmacist 3 = 16 hours per week. Calculation = 38 + 22 + 16 = 76 ÷ 40 = 1.90 FTE.
Total Salaries
Pension and Profit Sharing
Total Labor Expenses
Complete each employee classification line in aggregate. If there are no employees in a specific category, please leave blank. Provide your 
best estimate of the percentage of time spent working in each category, the rows must equal 100%. Complete these forms using the  same 
fiscal year as listed on page 2 and used for reporting overhead expenses.
--- Page 34 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
SECTION IIB ‐‐ OVERHEAD EXPENSES
Page 7
1040 
Schedule C
1065
1120
1120S
Expense 
Amount 
Reported
Myers and 
Stauffer 
Use Only
Line 
No.
13
16a 20
14
(1)
23
14
17
12
(2)
23
14
17
12
(3)
23
14
17
12
(4)
20b
13
16
11
(5)
20a
13
16
11
(6)
21
11
14
9
(7)
15
20* 26* 19*
(8)
16a&b
15
18
13
(9)
17
20* 26* 19*
(10)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(11)
27a*
12
15
10
(12)
n/a
n/a
19
n/a
(13)
25
20* 26* 19* Utilities
(14)
25
20* 26* 19*
(15)
18&22 20* 26* 19*
(16)
8
20* 22
16
(17)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(18)
9,27a* 20* 26* 19*
(19)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(20)
24a&b 20* 26* 19*
(21)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(22)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(23)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(24)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(25)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(26)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(27)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(28)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(29)
27a*
20* 26* 19*
(30)
Legal and Professional Fees 
Complete this section using your internal financial statement or tax return for the fiscal year ending listed on page 2. You should only use a tax return 
if the only store reported on the return is the store being surveyed. If you are using a tax return, please refer to the line numbers in the left columns 
that correspond to federal income tax return lines. Use your most recently completed fiscal year for which financial records are available and 
complete (e.g., December 31, 2015, or December 31, 2014, if 2015 records are not yet complete). If you prefer, you may submit a copy of your 
financial statement and/or tax return (including all applicable schedules) and Myers and Stauffer can complete pages 7 ‐ 9.
* Notes about tax return line references
Form 1040, Schedule C, line 27a  is for "Other Expenses" and a detailed breakdown of this category is typically reported on page 2, Part V of the form. 
Form 1065, line 20;  Form 1120, line 26 and Form 1120S, line 19 are for "Other Deductions" and a detailed breakdown of the expenses in this 
category will be found in the "Statements" attached to the return.
2015 Tax Form
Round all amounts to nearest dollar or whole number.
Depreciation (this fiscal year only ‐ not accumulated)
Taxes
(a) Personal Property Taxes Paid
(b) Real Estate Taxes
(c) Payroll Taxes
Any other taxes should be reported on page 6. Specify each type and 
amount.
Rent ‐ Building (or ownership expenses of interest, taxes, insurance and 
maintenance if building is leased from a related party)
Rent ‐ Equipment and Other
Repairs & maintenance
Insurance (other than employee medical) 
Interest 
Switching / E‐Prescribing Fees 
Dues and Publications 
Bad Debts (this fiscal year only ‐ not accumulated) 
Charitable Contributions 
(a) Telephone 
(b) Heat, Water, Lights, Sewer, Trash and other Utilities 
Operating and Office Supplies (exclude prescription containers and labels)
Advertising 
Computer Expenses 
Prescription Delivery Expenses (wages paid to a driver should only be reported on pg. 5)
Prescription Containers and Labels 
Travel, Meals and Entertainment 
Employee Training and Certification 
Continuing Education 
Security / Alarm 
Bank Charges
Credit Card Processing Fees 
Cleaning / Housekeeping / Janitorial 
Lawn Care / Snow Removal / Pest Control 
Pharmacy Licenses / Permits 
--- Page 35 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 8
SECTION IIB ‐‐ OVERHEAD EXPENSES, CONTINUED
Other non‐labor expenses not included on lines (1) through (30)
Expense 
Amount 
Reported
Myers and 
Stauffer Use 
Only
Line No.
(31a)
(31b)
(31c)
(31d)
(31e)
(31f)
(31g)
(31h)
(31i)
(31j)
(31k)
(31l)
(31m)
(31n)
(31o)
(31p)
(31q)
(31r)
(31s)
(31t)
(32)
Expense Description
(Round all amounts to nearest dollar or whole number.)
Examples: Franchise fees,  other taxes not reported on page 7, accreditation and/or certification fees, restocking fees, postage, administrative 
expenses, amortization, etc. Specify each item and the corresponding amount.  Note that labor expenses are reported on Page 6. For corporate 
overhead expenses allocated to the individual store, please attach documentation to establish the expenses included in the allocation and describe the 
allocation basis. 
Total Overhead Expenses [Add Line (1) through Line (31t)]
--- Page 36 ---
Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Page 9
SECTION III ‐‐ RECONCILIATION WITH FINANCIAL STATEMENT OR TAX RETURN
Column 1
Column 2
1040C
1065
1120
1120S
Cost Survey Amounts
Financial Statement or 
Tax Return Amounts
28
21
27
20
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(a)
(5a)
(b)
(5b)
(c) 
(5c)
(d)
(5d)
(e)
(5e)
(a)
(6a)
(b)
(6b)
(c) 
(6c)
(d)
(6d)
(e)
(6e)
(7)
Total [add Lines (1) to (6e)] Column Totals Must be Equal
Enter Amount from Total Overhead Expenses (Page 8, 
Line 32)
Enter Amount from Total Labor Expenses (Page 6, Line 
15)
Specify Items with Amounts that are on Cost Survey but 
not on Financial Statement or Tax Return 
Specify Items with Amounts that are on Financial 
Statement or Tax Return but not on this Cost Survey 
Total Expenses per Cost Survey [add Lines (2) and (3)]
The purpose of this reconciliation is to ensure that all expenses have been included and that none have been 
duplicated. Complete these forms using the same fiscal year which was used to report overhead and labor expenses.
Total Expenses per Financial Statement or Tax Return
2015 Tax Form Number
--- Page 37 ---
Exhibit 2a 
Letter from the Michigan Department of 
Health and Human Services Regarding 
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost Survey 
(Independent Pharmacies) 
--- Page 38 ---
CAPITOL COMMONS CENTER • 400 SOUTH PINE • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
July 29, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Mandatory Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers and 
Stauffer LC to conduct a pharmacy cost of dispensing survey as part of the process to evaluate the costs 
associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid beneficiaries. 
State Medicaid agencies are being directed by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS) to adopt pharmacy payment policies designed to pay pharmacies for the actual acquisition cost of 
drugs plus a reasonable dispensing fee, based on the actual cost to the pharmacy of dispensing drugs to 
Medicaid beneficiaries. This survey is our tool to help us determine a reasonable dispensing fee. All 
Michigan Medicaid pharmacy providers are required to participate in the survey under the 
conditions outlined in the Medical Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner Agreement. 
You should complete the cost of dispensing survey using information from your most recently completed 
fiscal year for which records are complete and available. You should report information separately for 
each store surveyed. For the requested sales and expense information, you should rely on your 
completed financial statements or other reports that are specific to the pharmacy location being surveyed. 
The survey form includes cross references to various federal income tax forms (e.g., 1065, 1120, 1120S 
or Schedule C of Form 1040) which may be useful if your tax return is limited to a single store. If multiple 
pharmacies are reported on your income tax return, you should instead use store specific financial 
reports. 
For your convenience, Myers and Stauffer can complete Section IIB “Overhead 
Expenses” and Section III “Reconciliation with Financial Statement or Tax Return” for you if you wish to 
submit a copy of your store specific financial reports or your federal income tax return (with all 
accompanying schedules). You will still need to complete other sections of the cost survey. 
If you prefer to respond in an electronic format: 
We strongly encourage pharmacies to respond in an electronic format. If you prefer to respond in an 
electronic format, you may obtain an Excel spreadsheet version of the survey by contacting Myers and 
Stauffer by phone or by email with a request to disp_survey@mslc.com. Surveys that are completed 
electronically may be submitted via email. 
If you prefer to respond in a paper format: Send completed forms to: 
Myers and Stauffer LC 
Certified Public Accountants 
700 W. 47th Street, Suite 1100 
Kansas City, MO 64112 
You may return the survey using the enclosed Business Reply Label with any envelope. 
Postage will be paid by Myers and Stauffer. 
--- Page 39 ---
Pharmacy Owner/Manager 
July 29, 2016 
Page 2 
CAPITOL COMMONS CENTER • 400 SOUTH PINE • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
Pharmacies are encouraged to return the requested information as soon as possible, but forms must be 
returned no later than August 31, 2016. 
It is very important that pharmacies respond with accurate information. All submitted surveys must be 
reviewed and validated by staff at Myers and Stauffer. If our review yields the need for additional 
inquiries, Myers and Stauffer staff will contact you. 
Myers and Stauffer will be conducting informational meetings via telephonic/Internet-based webinars to 
further explain the survey. At these meetings, Myers and Stauffer will present more about the survey 
process and the information that is being requested. You may also use this forum as an opportunity to 
ask questions about the survey form and the survey process. Please refer to the enclosed information 
meeting flyer for further information on the dates and times of these webinar meetings. 
Cost of dispensing information submitted to Myers and Stauffer for this project will remain strictly 
confidential. 
If you have any questions, please call Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or send an email to 
disp_survey@mslc.com. Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly 
appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
Enclosure 
--- Page 40 ---
Exhibit 2b 
Letter from the Michigan Department of 
Health and Human Services Regarding 
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost Survey 
(Chain Pharmacies)
--- Page 41 ---
CAPITOL COMMONS CENTER • 400 SOUTH PINE • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
July 29, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Mandatory Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers and 
Stauffer LC to conduct a pharmacy cost of dispensing survey as part of the process to evaluate the costs 
associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid beneficiaries. 
State Medicaid agencies are being directed by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS) to adopt pharmacy payment policies designed to pay pharmacies for the actual acquisition cost of 
drugs plus a reasonable dispensing fee, based on the actual cost to the pharmacy of dispensing drugs to 
Medicaid beneficiaries. This survey is our tool to help us determine a reasonable dispensing fee. All 
Michigan Medicaid pharmacy providers are required to participate in the survey under the terms and 
conditions outlined in the Medical Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner Agreement. 
Enclosed are several copies of the Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey. Please review 
the survey instructions. You may respond to the survey using either a paper or electronic format. In past 
surveys performed by Myers and Stauffer, many pharmacy chains have preferred to respond to the survey in 
an electronic format. 
Also enclosed with this letter is a list of the names and addresses of your pharmacies that participate in the 
Michigan Medicaid program. Pharmacy information is presented as shown in records from Michigan 
Medicaid. If this list is inaccurate, please notify Myers and Stauffer. 
If you prefer to respond in a paper format: You must submit a completed survey for each store on the 
attached list. If you require additional survey forms, please contact Myers and Stauffer for forms or make 
additional copies as needed. Please send completed forms to: 
Myers and Stauffer LC 
Certified Public Accountants 
700 W. 47th Street, Suite 1100 
Kansas City, Missouri 64112 
You may return the surveys using the enclosed Business Reply Label with any envelope. Postage will be 
paid by Myers and Stauffer. 
If you prefer to respond in an electronic format: You will still be required to submit survey data for each 
store on the attached list using an Excel spreadsheet template provided by Myers and Stauffer. To obtain the 
Excel spreadsheet, send a request by email to disp_survey@mslc.com or contact Myers and Stauffer staff 
directly (contact information below). Surveys that are completed electronically may be submitted via email. 
Whether you complete the survey in either a paper or electronic format, we recommend that you retain a 
copy of the completed survey forms for your records. Also, please describe any cost allocations used in 
preparing the income statement such as administrative expense, etc. Warehousing and distribution costs 
should be shown in cost of goods sold or listed separately. 
--- Page 42 ---
Pharmacy Owner/Manager 
July 29, 2016 
Page 2 
CAPITOL COMMONS CENTER • 400 SOUTH PINE • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
Pharmacies are encouraged to return the requested information as soon as possible, but forms must be 
returned no later than August 31, 2016. 
It is very important that pharmacies respond with accurate information. All submitted surveys must be 
reviewed and validated by staff at Myers and Stauffer. If our review yields the need for additional inquiries, 
Myers and Stauffer staff will contact you. 
Myers and Stauffer will be conducting informational meetings via telephonic/Internet-based webinars to 
further explain the survey. At these meetings, Myers and Stauffer will present more about the survey process 
and the information that is being requested. You may also use this forum as an opportunity to ask questions 
about the survey form and the survey process. Please refer to the enclosed information meeting flyer for 
further information on the dates and times of these webinar meetings. 
Cost of dispensing information submitted to Myers and Stauffer for this project will remain strictly 
confidential. 
If you have any questions, please call Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or send an email to 
disp_survey@mslc.com. Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
Enclosure 
--- Page 43 ---
Exhibit 3a 
First Survey Reminder Letter 
(Independent Pharmacies)
--- Page 44 ---
LEWIS CASS BUILDING • 320 S. WALNUT STREET • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
August 17, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey Reminder 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers 
and Stauffer LC to conduct a Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey as part of the process to 
evaluate the costs associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid 
beneficiaries. 
Several weeks ago you should have received a copy of the Cost of Dispensing Survey form. 
Surveys were sent with a due date of August 31, 2016. All Michigan Medicaid pharmacy 
providers are required to participate in the survey under the terms and conditions outlined in the 
Medical Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner Agreement. This letter serves as a 
reminder that the survey due date is approaching, and you are encouraged to submit a completed 
survey as soon as possible. 
If you have not received a survey form or have misplaced your survey form, or for other questions 
regarding the survey, please contact Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or via email 
to disp_survey@mslc.com. You may also request an Excel template of the survey form if you 
prefer to respond in an electronic format. 
If you have recently submitted your survey to Myers and Stauffer, we thank you for your 
participation. If you would like to confirm receipt of your submitted survey, please feel free to 
contact Myers and Stauffer. 
Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
--- Page 45 ---
Exhibit 3b 
First Survey Reminder Letter 
(Chain Pharmacies)
--- Page 46 ---
LEWIS CASS BUILDING • 320 S. WALNUT STREET • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
August 17, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey Reminder 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers 
and Stauffer LC to conduct a Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey as part of the process to 
evaluate the costs associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid 
beneficiaries. 
Several weeks ago you should have received a copy of the Cost of Dispensing Survey form. 
Attached was also a listing of the pharmacies in your chain that participate in the Michigan 
Medicaid program and are subject to this survey. Surveys were sent with a due date of August 
31, 2016. All Michigan Medicaid pharmacy providers are required to participate in the survey under 
the terms and conditions outlined in the Medical Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner 
Agreement. This letter serves as a reminder that the survey due date is approaching, and you are 
encouraged to submit a completed survey as soon as possible. 
If you have not received a survey form or have misplaced your survey form, or for other questions 
regarding the survey, please contact Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or via email 
to disp_survey@mslc.com. You may also request an Excel template of the survey form if you 
prefer to respond in an electronic format. 
If you have recently submitted your survey to Myers and Stauffer, we thank you for your 
participation. If you would like to confirm receipt of your submitted survey, please feel free to 
contact Myers and Stauffer. 
Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
--- Page 47 ---
Exhibit 4a 
Second Survey Reminder / Extension 
Letter (Independent Pharmacies)
--- Page 48 ---
LEWIS CASS BUILDING • 320 S. WALNUT STREET • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
August 31, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey Reminder 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers 
and Stauffer LC to conduct a Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey as part of the process to 
evaluate the costs associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid 
beneficiaries. 
Several weeks ago you should have received a copy of Cost of Dispensing Survey form. Surveys 
were sent with a due date of August 31, 2016. All Michigan Medicaid pharmacy providers are 
required to participate in the survey under the terms and conditions outlined in the Medical 
Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner Agreement. In order to allow pharmacies 
more time to respond to the dispensing cost survey, Myers and Stauffer has been 
instructed by the Department to continue to accept surveys through September 14, 2016. 
You are encouraged to submit a completed survey as soon as possible. 
If you have not received a survey form or have misplaced your survey form, or for other questions 
regarding the survey, please contact Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or via email 
to disp_survey@mslc.com. You may also request an Excel template of the survey form if you 
prefer to respond in an electronic format. 
If you have recently submitted your survey to Myers and Stauffer, we thank you for your 
participation. If you would like to confirm receipt of your submitted survey, please feel free to 
contact Myers and Stauffer. 
Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
--- Page 49 ---
Exhibit 4b 
Second Survey Reminder / Extension 
Letter (Chain Pharmacies)
--- Page 50 ---
LEWIS CASS BUILDING • 320 S. WALNUT STREET • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48913 
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs • 517-241-8055 
August 31, 2016 
Dear Pharmacy Owner/Manager: 
Re: Michigan Medicaid Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey Reminder 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services is working with the accounting firm Myers 
and Stauffer LC to conduct a Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey as part of the process to 
evaluate the costs associated with dispensing prescription medications to Michigan Medicaid 
beneficiaries. 
Several weeks ago you should have received a copy of the Cost of Dispensing Survey form. 
Attached was also a listing of the pharmacies in your chain that participate in the Michigan 
Medicaid program and are subject to this survey. Surveys were sent with a due date of August 
31, 2016. All Michigan Medicaid pharmacy providers are required to participate in the survey under 
the terms and conditions outlined in the Medical Assistance Provider Enrollment & Trading Partner 
Agreement. In order to allow pharmacies more time to respond to the dispensing cost 
survey, Myers and Stauffer has been instructed by the Department to continue to accept 
surveys through September 14, 2016. You are encouraged to submit a completed survey as 
soon as possible. 
If you have not received a survey form or have misplaced your survey form, or for other questions 
regarding the survey, please contact Myers and Stauffer toll free at 1-800-374-6858 or via email 
to disp_survey@mslc.com. You may also request an Excel template of the survey form if you 
prefer to respond in an electronic format. 
If you have recently submitted your survey to Myers and Stauffer, we thank you for your 
participation. If you would like to confirm receipt of your submitted survey, please feel free to 
contact Myers and Stauffer. 
Your cooperation in providing the information for this survey is greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely, 
Chris Priest, Director 
Medical Services Administration 
--- Page 51 ---
Exhibit 5 
Table of Inflation Factors for 
Dispensing Cost Survey 
--- Page 52 ---
Table of Inflation Factors for Dispensing Cost Survey
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Fiscal Year End 
Date
Midpoint Date
Midpoint 
Index 1
Terminal Month 
Index 
(6/30/2016) 1
Inflation 
Factor
12/31/2012
6/30/2012
116.8
126.7
1.085
9/30/2014
3/31/2014
120.5
126.7
1.051
10/31/2014
4/30/2014
120.8
126.7
1.049
11/30/2014
5/31/2014
121.1
126.7
1.046
12/31/2014
6/30/2014
121.4
126.7
1.044
1/31/2015
7/31/2014
121.7
126.7
1.041
2/28/2015
8/31/2014
121.9
126.7
1.039
3/31/2015
9/30/2014
122.2
126.7
1.037
4/30/2015
10/31/2014
122.4
126.7
1.035
5/31/2015
11/30/2014
122.6
126.7
1.033
6/30/2015
12/31/2014
122.8
126.7
1.032
7/31/2015
1/31/2015
123.1
126.7
1.029
8/31/2015
2/28/2015
123.3
126.7
1.028
9/30/2015
3/31/2015
123.6
126.7
1.025
10/31/2015
4/30/2015
123.7
126.7
1.024
11/30/2015
5/31/2015
123.7
126.7
1.024
12/31/2015
6/30/2015
123.8
126.7
1.023
1/31/2016
7/31/2015
124.1
126.7
1.021
2/29/2016
8/31/2015
124.3
126.7
1.019
3/31/2016
9/30/2015
124.6
126.7
1.017
4/30/2016
10/31/2015
124.8
126.7
1.015
5/31/2016
11/30/2015
125.0
126.7
1.014
6/30/2016
12/31/2015
125.2
126.7
1.012
Total Number of Stores
1,862
296
7
7
1
49
1
1
0
0
23
1
8
893
169
Number of 
Stores with 
Year End Date
7
3
247
26
120
1
2
0
0
1 Midpoint and terminal month indices are measured by the Employment Cost Index for all 
civilian employees published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The data are 
seasonally-adjusted quarterly and are interpreted here as the values corresponding to the last 
month each quarter. Interim month values are obtained through linear interpolation.
Inflated costs are obtained by multiplying the overhead and labor costs reported by pharmacies 
using the inflation factor in the fifth column. Wage costs tend to rise over time so that costs 
reported twelve months ago naturally tend to be lower than costs reported in the current month. 
The inflation adjustment uses the cost index midway through the prior fiscal year and is the best 
estimate of the average price level that can be made based on available data.
Myers and Stauffer LC
2/21/2017
--- Page 53 ---
Exhibit 6 
Histogram of Pharmacy Dispensing Cost 
--- Page 54 ---
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Number of Pharmacies
Average Pharmacy Dispensing Cost per Prescription
Histogram of Pharmacy Dispensing Cost
Independent
Chain
Specialty
--- Page 55 ---
Exhibit 7 
Cost of Dispensing Survey Data 
Statistical Summary 
--- Page 56 ---
Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Statistical Summary
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost per Prescription 1
Measurements of Central Tendency
Other Statistics
Means
Medians
95% Confidence Interval for Mean 
(based on Student t)
Characteristic
n: Number of 
Pharmacies
Average Total 
Prescription 
Volume
Average 
Medicaid 
Prescription 
Volume
Mean
Weighted by 
Total Rx 
Volume
Weighted by 
Medicaid Rx 
Volume
Median
Weighted by 
Total Rx 
Volume
Weighted by 
Medicaid Rx 
Volume
Lower 
Bound
Upper 
Bound
t Value (with n-
1 degrees of 
freedom)
All Pharmacies in Sample
1,862
90,428
4,156
$18.11
$11.46
$11.39
$10.82
$9.07
$9.90
$70.56
$14.90
$21.32
1.96
Non Specialty Pharmacies 2
1,724
72,109
4,127
$12.15
$10.34
$10.64
$10.65
$9.49
$9.79
$7.76
$11.79
$12.52
1.96
Specialty Pharmacies 2
138
319,285
4,522
$92.54
$14.61
$20.02
$20.08
$6.53
$13.51
$246.66
$51.02
$134.06
1.98
Specialty Pharmacy Breakdown 3
Blood Factor
11
16,287
371
$621.68
$288.66
$377.45
$354.66
$95.63
$95.63
$660.43
$178.00
$1,065.40
2.23
Compounded Infusion / Intravenous
16
108,068
925
$98.71
$21.13
$24.95
$91.51
$11.52
$11.52
$71.27
$60.73
$136.69
2.13
Other
111
379,758
5,452
$39.21
$13.18
$17.48
$16.93
$6.53
$13.67
$67.48
$26.51
$51.90
1.98
Non Specialty Pharmacies Only
Affiliation:
Chain
1,204
77,251
4,132
$11.02
$9.84
$9.98
$10.27
$9.38
$9.65
$4.30
$10.78
$11.27
1.96
Non-chain
520
60,204
4,115
$14.77
$11.82
$12.15
$11.84
$10.01
$10.45
$12.14
$13.72
$15.81
1.96
Affiliation (In State Only):
Chain (In State)
1,148
72,309
4,290
$11.04
$9.91
$10.00
$10.27
$9.49
$9.65
$4.33
$10.78
$11.29
1.96
Non-chain (In State)
506
45,588
4,208
$14.88
$12.02
$12.11
$11.92
$10.51
$10.45
$12.26
$13.81
$15.95
1.96
Location (Urban vs. Rural): 4
In State Urban
1,362
64,845
4,164
$12.30
$10.36
$10.66
$10.61
$9.55
$9.74
$7.86
$11.88
$12.72
1.96
In State Rural
292
60,824
4,735
$11.79
$10.40
$10.56
$10.83
$10.13
$10.15
$7.95
$10.87
$12.71
1.97
All In State (Urban and Rural)
1,654
64,135
4,265
$12.21
$10.37
$10.64
$10.67
$9.63
$9.79
$7.88
$11.83
$12.59
1.96
Out of State
70
260,527
858
$10.78
$10.16
$10.48
$9.99
$8.88
$8.91
$3.95
$9.84
$11.72
1.99
Annual Rx Volume:
0 to 44,999
614
27,962
2,110
$15.92
$14.07
$14.12
$13.63
$13.04
$12.80
$10.84
$15.06
$16.78
1.96
45,000 to 79,999
648
59,787
3,933
$10.64
$10.52
$10.40
$10.45
$10.34
$10.27
$3.61
$10.36
$10.91
1.96
80,000 and Higher
462
148,064
7,080
$9.28
$9.30
$9.44
$9.01
$8.76
$9.15
$4.50
$8.86
$9.69
1.97
Annual Medicaid Rx Volume: 5
0 to 1,999
534
53,700
1,049
$15.38
$11.08
$14.28
$12.92
$10.01
$12.72
$10.92
$14.46
$16.31
1.96
2,000 to 4,499
613
58,899
3,134
$11.41
$10.46
$11.23
$10.92
$9.77
$10.87
$5.18
$11.00
$11.82
1.96
4,500 and Higher
577
103,180
8,031
$9.95
$9.91
$9.95
$9.55
$9.30
$9.48
$5.13
$9.53
$10.37
1.96
Medicaid Utilization Ratio: 5
0.00% to 3.99%
494
95,308
1,740
$12.07
$10.14
$10.09
$10.37
$9.08
$9.08
$7.45
$11.41
$12.73
1.96
4.00% to 6.99%
526
67,576
3,700
$11.81
$10.27
$10.34
$10.74
$9.64
$9.75
$7.17
$11.19
$12.42
1.96
7.00% and Higher
704
59,217
6,121
$12.47
$10.62
$10.88
$10.61
$9.81
$9.85
$8.38
$11.85
$13.09
1.96
Standard 
Deviation
Myers and Stauffer LC
Page 1 of 2
2/21/2017
--- Page 57 ---
Pharmacy Cost of Dispensing Survey
Statistical Summary
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Pharmacy Dispensing Cost per Prescription 1
Measurements of Central Tendency
Other Statistics
Means
Medians
95% Confidence Interval for Mean 
(based on Student t)
Characteristic
n: Number of 
Pharmacies
Average Total 
Prescription 
Volume
Average 
Medicaid 
Prescription 
Volume
Mean
Weighted by 
Total Rx 
Volume
Weighted by 
Medicaid Rx 
Volume
Median
Weighted by 
Total Rx 
Volume
Weighted by 
Medicaid Rx 
Volume
Lower 
Bound
Upper 
Bound
t Value (with n-
1 degrees of 
freedom)
Standard 
Deviation
Total Rx Volume and Location
In State Urban Only
0 to 44,999
495
27,583
2,073
$16.35
$14.43
$14.43
$13.89
$13.22
$12.97
$10.79
$15.40
$17.30
1.96
45,000 to 79,999
517
59,994
3,817
$10.55
$10.43
$10.34
$10.28
$10.21
$10.13
$3.21
$10.27
$10.83
1.96
80,000 and Higher
350
124,708
7,634
$9.17
$9.04
$9.44
$8.80
$8.67
$9.15
$4.84
$8.66
$9.67
1.97
In State Rural only
0 to 44,999
114
29,355
2,345
$14.17
$12.60
$12.91
$12.60
$12.43
$12.58
$11.11
$12.11
$16.23
1.98
45,000 to 79,999
112
58,430
5,059
$10.82
$10.68
$10.63
$10.83
$10.82
$10.82
$5.24
$9.84
$11.80
1.98
80,000 and Higher
66
119,240
8,316
$9.33
$9.23
$9.34
$9.21
$9.16
$9.19
$1.93
$8.85
$9.80
2.00
Institutional:
LTC Institutional Pharmacies 6
68
189,777
6,644
$13.47
$10.15
$12.19
$11.94
$9.22
$11.59
$7.84
$11.57
$15.37
2.00
Non-LTC Institutional Pharmacies 6
1,656
67,277
4,023
$12.10
$10.36
$10.53
$10.61
$9.54
$9.74
$7.76
$11.73
$12.47
1.96
Unit Dose:
Does dispense unit dose
67
232,461
6,613
$13.70
$9.21
$12.51
$11.59
$8.41
$11.59
$8.03
$11.75
$15.66
2.00
Does not dispense unit dose
1,657
65,625
4,026
$12.09
$10.50
$10.51
$10.61
$9.63
$9.74
$7.75
$11.72
$12.46
1.96
340B Pharmacy Status
Participates in 340B and provides 340B pricing to Medicaid
151
83,894
4,274
$9.71
$9.13
$10.03
$8.67
$8.51
$8.51
$6.93
$8.59
$10.82
1.98
Does not participate in 340B or does not provide 340B pricing 
to Medicaid
1,573
70,978
4,113
$12.39
$10.48
$10.70
$10.93
$9.74
$9.90
$7.80
$12.00
$12.77
1.96
Notes:
1) All pharmacy dispensing costs are inflated to the common point of 6/30/2016 (i.e., midpoint of a fiscal year ending 12/31/2016).
2) For purposes of this report a "specialty pharmacy" is one that reported sales for intravenous, home infusion, blood factor and/or other specialty services of 10% or more of total prescription sales.
3) For purposes of this report specialty pharmacies were divided into three categories. Blood factor specialty, infusion specialty, and other specialty. 
4) Myers and Stauffer used the pharmacies’ zip code and tables from the U.S. Census Bureau to determine if the pharmacy was located in a Metropolitan Statistical Area. Pharmacies not in a Metropolitan Statistical Area are considered "rural" for purposes of this report.
5) Medicaid volume is based on the time period of July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016.
6) For purposes of this report an "LTC Institutional Pharmacy" is one that reported dispensing 25% or more of prescriptions to long-term care facilities.
Myers and Stauffer LC
Page 2 of 2
2/21/2017
--- Page 58 ---
Exhibit 8 
Table of Counties and Urban / Rural 
Locations for Michigan Pharmacies 
--- Page 59 ---
Table of Counties and Urban / Rural Designation
for Surveyed Pharmacies
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
County
Status
County
Status
ALCONA
RURAL
LIVINGSTON
URBAN
ALGER
RURAL
LUCE
RURAL
ALLEGAN
RURAL
MACKINAC
RURAL
ALPENA
RURAL
MACOMB
URBAN
ANTRIM
RURAL
MANISTEE
RURAL
ARENAC
RURAL
MARQUETTE
RURAL
BARAGA
RURAL
MASON
RURAL
BARRY
URBAN
MECOSTA
RURAL
BAY
URBAN
MENOMINEE
RURAL
BENZIE
RURAL
MIDLAND
RURAL
BERRIEN
URBAN
MISSAUKEE
RURAL
BRANCH
RURAL
MONROE
URBAN
CALHOUN
URBAN
MONTCALM
RURAL
CASS
URBAN
MONTMORENCY
RURAL
CHARLEVOIX
RURAL
MUSKEGON
URBAN
CHEBOYGAN
RURAL
NEWAYGO
URBAN
CHIPPEWA
RURAL
OAKLAND
URBAN
CLARE
RURAL
OCEANA
RURAL
CLINTON
URBAN
OGEMAW
RURAL
CRAWFORD
RURAL
ONTONAGON
RURAL
DELTA
RURAL
OSCEOLA
RURAL
DICKINSON
RURAL
OSCODA
RURAL
EATON
URBAN
OTSEGO
RURAL
EMMET
RURAL
OTTAWA
URBAN
GENESEE
URBAN
PRESQUE ISLE
RURAL
GLADWIN
RURAL
ROSCOMMON
RURAL
GOGEBIC
RURAL
SAGINAW
URBAN
GRAND TRAVERSE
RURAL
SANILAC
RURAL
GRATIOT
RURAL
SCHOOLCRAFT
RURAL
HILLSDALE
RURAL
SHIAWASSEE
RURAL
HOUGHTON
RURAL
ST. CLAIR
URBAN
HURON
RURAL
ST. JOSEPH
RURAL
INGHAM
URBAN
TUSCOLA
RURAL
IONIA
URBAN
VAN BUREN
URBAN
IOSCO
RURAL
WASHTENAW
URBAN
IRON
RURAL
WAYNE
URBAN
ISABELLA
RURAL
WEXFORD
RURAL
JACKSON
URBAN
KALAMAZOO
URBAN
KALKASKA
RURAL
KENT
URBAN
LAKE
RURAL
LAPEER
URBAN
LEELANAU
RURAL
LENAWEE
RURAL
Notes:
1) Table is limited to counties located within the state of Michigan with pharmacies enrolled in 
the Michigan Medicaid pharmacy program. 
2) Census status refers to the U.S. Bureau of the Census designation for a county as being in a 
urban statistical area or rural statistical area (per December 2007 definitions, obtained from 
http://www.census.gov).
URBAN = The county is located in a metropolitan statistical area.
RURAL = The county is located in a micropolitan statistical area.
Myers and Stauffer LC
2/21/2017
--- Page 60 ---
Exhibit 9 
Charts Relating to Pharmacy Total 
Prescription Volume: 
A: Histogram of Pharmacy Total 
Prescription Volume 
B: Scatter-Plot of Relationship between 
Dispensing Cost per Prescription and 
Total Prescription Volume 
--- Page 61 ---
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Number of Pharmacies
Pharmacy Total Prescription Volume
Histogram of Pharmacy Total Prescription Volume
Chain
Independent
$-
$20
$40
$60
$80
$100
$120
$140
-
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
300,000
Cost per Prescription
Total Prescription Volume
Scatter Plot of Relationship Between Dispensing Cost per 
Prescription and Total Prescription Volume
(Non-Specialty Pharmacies, Total Prescription Volume < 300,000)
--- Page 62 ---
Exhibit 10 
Chart of Components of Cost of 
Dispensing per Prescription 
--- Page 63 ---
Owner 
Professional 
Labor, $0.586, 5%
Employee 
Professional and 
Other Labor, 
$6.586, 62%
Building and 
Equipment, 
$1.019, 10%
Prescription 
Specific (incl. 
delivery), $0.846, 
8%
Other Overhead, 
$1.598, 15%
Chart of Components of Dispensing Cost per Prescription
--- Page 64 ---
Exhibit 11 
Summary of Pharmacy Attributes 
--- Page 65 ---
Summary of Pharmacy Attributes
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Statistics for Responding Pharmacies
Response
Count
Percent
Medicaid fee for service
N/A
10.3%
Other third party
N/A
79.3%
Cash
N/A
10.4%
Total
N/A
100.00%
Medicaid fee for service
N/A
8.0%
Other third party
N/A
79.7%
Cash
N/A
12.3%
Total
N/A
100.00%
Individual
50
2.7%
Corporation
1,726
93.0%
Partnership
55
3.0%
Other
25
1.3%
Total
1,856
100.0%
Medical office building
228
12.3%
Shopping center
234
12.6%
Stand alone building
871
46.8%
Grocery store / mass merchant
418
22.5%
Outpatient Hospital
49
2.6%
Other
60
3.2%
Total
1,860
100.0%
Yes
510
29.2%
No
1,238
70.8%
Total
1,748
100.0%
Yes
151
53.5%
No
131
46.5%
Total
282
100.0%
Yes, (own building or rent from related party)
456
30.5%
No
1,040
69.5%
Total
1,496
100.0%
Hours open per week
1,609
67.85 hours
N/A
N/A
Years pharmacy has operated at current location
1,740
17.7 years
N/A
N/A
Yes
1,460
78.8%
No
393
21.2%
Total
1,853
100.0%
Percent of prescriptions to generic products
1,555
Percent of prescriptions dispensed that were 
generic products
N/A
83.5%
Percent of prescriptions to long-term care 
facilities
1,862
4.47% for all pharmacies; (28.51% for 262 
pharmacies reporting > 0%)
N/A
N/A
Yes 
(average of 38.32% of prescriptions for 
pharmacies indicating provision of unit dose 
prescriptions. Approximately 89.54% of unit dose 
prescriptions were reported as prepared in the 
pharmacy with 10.46% reported as purchased 
already prepared from a manufacturer)
204
10.96%
No
1,658
89.04%
Total
1,862
100.00%
Percent of total prescriptions delivered
1,862
8.27% for all pharmacies; (19.49% for 790 
pharmacies reporting > 0%)
N/A
N/A
Percent of Medicaid prescriptions delivered
1,862
7.27% for all pharmacies; (17.95% for 754 
pharmacies reporting > 0%)
N/A
N/A
Percent of prescriptions dispensed by mail
1,862
2.67% for all pharmacies; (23.83% for 209 
pharmacies reporting >0% percent of 
prescriptions dispensed by mail)
N/A
N/A
Building ownership (or rented from related party)
1,496
Purchase drugs through 340B pricing
1,748
Provision of unit dose services
1,862
1,853
Provision of 24 hour emergency services
Provision of 340B inventory to Medicaid 
(for those that indicated they purchase drugs 
through 340B pricing)
282
1,860
Location
Number of 
Pharmacies 
Responding
Attribute
Type of ownership
1,856
Payer Type: percent of prescriptions (averages)
1,842
Payer Type: percent of payments (averages)
1,844
Myers and Stauffer LC
1 of 2
--- Page 66 ---
Summary of Pharmacy Attributes
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Statistics for Responding Pharmacies
Response
Count
Percent
Number of 
Pharmacies 
Responding
Attribute
Percent of prescriptions compounded
1,862
1.23% for all pharmacies; (3.93% for 581 
pharmacies reporting >0 compounded Rxs
N/A
N/A
Creams
N/A
37.17%
Emulsions
N/A
26.38%
Nasal drops
N/A
0.21%
Ointments
N/A
21.59%
Optic drugs
N/A
0.10%
Compounded capsules
N/A
1.60%
Powders
N/A
1.25%
Suppositories
N/A
2.06%
Other
N/A
9.64%
Total
N/A
100.00%
Consultation between pharmacist and 
beneficiary to improve medication adherence. 
(Average 5.78 hours for 1,165 pharmacies 
reporting >0%)
1,165
N/A
Coordinating with prescriber to change dose, 
dosage form or duration of therapy based on 
pharmacists' review of age-appropriateness, 
drug-drug interaction, manufacturer 
recommendations, organ function, sub-optimal 
dosage form prescribed, etc. (Average 8.39 
hours for 1,150 pharmacies reporting >0%)
1,150
N/A
Coordinating with prescriber to add or delete a 
medication from the beneficiary's drug regimen 
based on pharmacist's review of clinical 
guidelines, adverse drug reaction, etc. (Average 
9.67 hours for 1,126 pharmacies reporting >0%)
1,126
N/A
Instructing a beneficiary on using a medication 
device (e.g.: inhaler, self-administered syringe). 
(Average 4.72 hours for 1,153 pharmacies 
reporting >0%)
1,153
N/A
Medication reconciliation. (Average 9.1 hours for 
694 pharmacies reporting >0%)
694
N/A
Professional Pharmacist Services
1,862
290
Types of prescriptions compounded
Myers and Stauffer LC
2 of 2
