STATE: Kentucky
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://legislature.ky.gov/Visitors/Pages/Presentations.aspx
SEED_URL: https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/907/023/010/REG/
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: Presenting to the Legislative Committees
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html; charset=utf-8
TITLE: Presenting to the Legislative Committees - 
Legislative Research Commission

Presenting to the Legislative Committees - 
Legislative Research Commission 
Skip to main navigation Skip to main content 
Kentucky General Assembly 
Search 
Menu 
Legislators 
Legislators 
Senate Members 
House Members 
Who's My Legislator 
Contact a Member 
Committees 
Committees 
House Standing Committees 
Senate Standing Committees 
Interim Joint Committees 
Special Committees 
Statutory Committees 
Caucuses 
Prior Committee Information 
Bills 
Kentucky Law 
Kentucky Law 
Kentucky Administrative Regulations 
Kentucky Administrative Regulations 
KAR List by Title 
Registers 
KAR FAQs 
Last Effective Dates, Expirations, and Certifications 
Emergency Regulations by Number 
Kentucky Revised Statutes 
Kentucky Revised Statutes 
Statute Revision Information 
KRS Title Page 
Certified Versions 
History & Functions 
Normal Effective Dates 
Extraordinary Sessions since 1940 
Acts of the Kentucky General Assembly 
Kentucky Constitution 
Public Services 
Public Services 
Geographic Information Systems 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) 
Maps 
Redistricting Information 
GIS Data 
Map Requests 
Public Information Office 
Public Information Office 
Radio News Releases 
News Releases 
News Photos 
Video Productions 
Capitol Campus Identification Badges 
School Group Tours 
Live Streams 
News Photos 
News Photos 
Public Bill Room 
Peggy King Legislative Reference Library 
Legislative Research Commission 
Legislative Research Commission 
LRC Organizational Chart 
Glossary of Legislative Terms 
LRC Publications 
LRC Publications 
LRC Research Reports 
LRC Informational Bulletins 
LRC Research Memoranda 
LRC Interactive Features 
Office of Education Accountability 
Office of Education Accountability 
OEA Hotline 
OEA Publications 
OEA Staff 
Office of Economic Analysis 
Office of Health Data Analytics 
Agency Reports 
Career Opportunities 
Visitors & Education 
Visitors & Education 
Educational Resources For Teachers 
Directions And Local Maps 
Postsecondary Internship Opportunities 
Annex Committee Room Reservations 
Capitol Campus Identification Badges 
Presenting to the Legislative Committees 
Home 
Visitors & Education 
Presenting to the Legislative Committees 
Presenting to the Legislative Committees 
Main Content 
​​Throughout the year, legislators often invite government officials, researchers, policy analysts, advocates, and other subject matter experts to provide formal testimony in committee meetings. Some committee meetings also offer members of the public an opportunity to speak on particular issues. However, public comment is only allowed as time permits and at the discretion of the committee chair. 
For invited speakers, all presentation materials must be submitted to committee staff 24 hours in advance of the meeting so staff can load them onto the committee room computer and the LRC website. This allows remote participants and members of the public to easily access copies of all materials.  
Speakers may not connect any laptops, tablets, thumb drives, USB drives, or other devices into LRC equipment. PDF files may be displayed, but are not the best option when presenting content on the committee screens. Often the content of a PDF is extremely small – even when displayed as “full screen” – and leads to a poor experience for participants. This includes PDF copies of PowerPoint slides.  
​ Presenting with ​​​​ Pow erPoint​​ 
PowerPoint is a common and effective format for presenting in committee meetings. Presenters should consult our PowerPoint Settings Guide  when developing a presentation.            
Handouts to Legislators  
If your presentation includes handouts to the committee members, please contact the committee staff administrator at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Please note that only committee chairs determine which materials will be issued to committee members.  
Participating via Zoom  
Zoom has become a common platform for both legislators and presenters to participate in committee meetings. However, the convenience of attending a meeting remotely creates unique challenges, and presenters should consult our Zoom Meeting Etiquette Tips ​ beforehand. 
About 
Contact Us 
Career Opportunities 
Site Map 
Calendars 
Legislative Calendar 
Regular Session Calendar 
Interim Calendar 
Standing Committee Schedule 
Miscellaneous 
Kentucky Educational Television 
Legislative Ethics Commission 
Office of Education Accountability 
Copyright 2026 Kentucky Legislative Research Commission 
All rights reserved 
Policies 
Security 
Disclaimer 
Accessibility 
Policies 
Security 
Disclaimer 
Accessibility 
© 2026 Commonwealth of Kentucky. All rights reserved. 
Kentucky.gov