PURPOSE: To evaluate factors associated with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) injection interval extension in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) switched to brolucizumab treatment.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults in the United States-based IRIS® Registry (Intelligent Research in Sight) with nAMD who switched from another anti-VEGF agent to brolucizumab-only treatment for ≥ 12 months from October 8, 2019, through November 26, 2021.
METHODS: Univariable and multivariable analyses examined associations of demographic and clinical characteristics with the likelihood of interval extension after switching to brolucizumab therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Eyes were classified as either extenders or nonextenders at 12 months. Extenders were eyes that achieved (1) an extension of ≥ 2 weeks in the brolucizumab injection interval at 12 months versus the interval before switching (time between the last known prior anti-VEGF injection and first [index] brolucizumab injection) and (2) stable (< 10 letters gained or lost) or improved (≥ 10 letters gained) visual acuity (VA) at 12 months versus VA at index injection.
RESULTS: Of 2015 eyes among 1890 patients who switched to brolucizumab treatment, 1186 (58.9%) were extenders. In univariable analyses, demographic and clinical characteristics were comparable between extenders and nonextenders, except that extenders had shorter intervals before switching versus nonextenders (mean, 5.9 ± 2.1 weeks vs. 10.1 ± 7.6 weeks, respectively). In multivariable logistic regression modeling, a shorter interval before switching was associated significantly and positively with interval extension with brolucizumab therapy (adjusted odds ratio, 5.6 for interval before switching of < 8 weeks versus ≥ 8 weeks; 95% confidence interval, 4.5-6.9; P < 0.001), and eyes with an index VA of 40 to 65 letters were significantly less likely to be extenders than eyes in the higher (better) index VA categories.
CONCLUSIONS: Length of the treatment interval before switching was the characteristic associated most strongly with successful interval extension with brolucizumab. Treatment-experienced patients who required more frequent injections (i.e., shorter intervals before switching) showed the greatest extensions when switching to brolucizumab. With careful consideration of benefits and risks, brolucizumab may be a valuable option for patients with higher treatment burdens because of the need for frequent injections.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.