STATE: Illinois
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/hfs/sitecollectiondocuments/04102025dtabmeetingminutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/committeeondrugsandtherapeutics.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: April 10, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf)
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board Meeting Minutes 
Date | Time: Thursday, April 10, 2025 | 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
Location: This meeting was held virtually via WebEx Webinar 
Audience: Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board 
Council Members Present: 
Chair (*) 
Vice Chair(**) 
Mahesh C. Patel, MD (*) 
Maurice Shaw, PharmD 
Arvind Goyal, MD 
Garry Moreland 
Nicole Florence, MD 
Stephen Sproat 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez, MD 
Paul Berkowitz Santina Wheat, MD 
Absences Recorded: 
Janet Albers, MD (**) 
HFS and UIC Staff Present: 
Jen Phillips 
Claudia Colombo 
Melissa Davis 
Jennifer DeWitt 
Thomas Dorn 
Brianna Hudak 
Michael Welton 
Mary Moody 
Jose Jimenez 
Chintan Patel 
A. Call to Order, Roll Call: The meeting was called to order by Chairperson Mahesh C. Patel 
on Thursday, April 10, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
B. Roll Call of Council Members: Dr. Patel facilitated roll call of board members. Quorum was 
confirmed. 
I. 
Conflict of Interest Declaration and Approval of Agenda: No D&T Advisory Board members 
had conflicts of interest pertinent to the agenda. Dr. Patel reminded the Board members to 
recuse themselves from the discussion if conflicts of interest are present. 
II. 
Review and Approval of Meeting Minutes: Dr. Goyal moved to approve the minutes from the 
January 9, 2025, meeting. Dr. Florence seconded the motion. The motion was approved 
unanimously. 
III. 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) Appeals 
A. Drug: Lybalvi (Olanzapine/Samidorphan) 
B. Presentation on clinical efficacy and safety. 
C. Public comment by Dr. Hugo Solari on behalf of the manufacturer advocating for preferred 
status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL). 
D. Board discussion on adherence, metabolic concerns, and outcomes. 
E. The motion to move Lybalvi to preferred without prior authorization was made by Dr. Berkowitz 
and seconded Dr. Goyal. 
F. The unanimous motion was passed. 
IV. 
Drug Class Review: Growth Hormones 
A. Drug presentation on short-acting and long-acting growth hormones. 
B. Public comment by Dr. Paul Miner regarding Skytrofa, emphasizing adherence benefits and 
clinical efficacy. 
C. Board members discussed adherence challenges and benefits of long-acting formulations. 
Consideration was given to clinical equivalence and improved compliance amongst the various 
agents. 
D. The motion to move Skytrofa, Sogroya, and Ngenla to preferred with prior authorization was 
made by Garry Moreland and seconded Dr. Vergara-Rodriguez. 
E. The motion was passed with majority approval with one abstention. 
V. 
New Drug Initial Reviews 
A. Drug: Ojemda (tovorafenib) 
1. Presentation on clinical efficacy and safety 
2. Public comment by Dr. Erin Lampson, who provided additional insights into Ojemda’s 
clinical benefits, safety profile, and its importance for patients with limited treatment 
options. 
3. Board members discussed the rarity of the condition, limited current utilization data, and 
the appropriateness of maintaining non-preferred status given the drug’s recent approval 
and specialized use. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
4. The motion to keep Ojemda non-preferred status was made by Dr. Vergara-Rodriguez 
and was seconded by Dr. Florence. 
5. The motion was passed. 
B. Drug: Aqneursa (acetyl-DL-leucine) 
1. Presentation on clinical efficacy and safety 
2. Public comment by Dr. Beth Zanrucha spoke to the clinical benefits observed in trials, 
including significant neurological improvement during treatment periods 
3. Board members discussed the rarity of Niemann-Pick Disease Type C (NPC) and limited 
utilization data. 
4. The motion to keep Aqneursa non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by 
Dr. Vergara-Rodriguez and seconded by Garry Moreland. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
C. Drug: Libervant (Diazepam Buccal Film) 
1. Presentation on clinical efficacy and safety 
2. Public comment by Dr. Nils Confer. 
3. The board decided to table the discussion until FDA approval is finalized. 
4. The motion to table the vote until FDA approval was made by Gr. Goyal and seconded 
by Garry Moreland. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
D. Drug: Ohtuvair (Ensifentrine) 
1. Presentation on clinical efficacy and safety 
2. Public comment by Dr. Alex Jones. 
3. The board discussed clinical trial data, efficacy, safety concerns, and its place in 
therapy. 
4. A motion was made by Mahesh C. Patel to maintain Ohtuvair as non-preferred on the 
Illinois Medicaid formulary. The motion was seconded by Dr. Pamela Vergara-
Rodriguez. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
VI. 
Future Agenda Preview 
A. The next D&T meetings are scheduled for July 10, 2025, and October 9, 2025. 
VII. 
Provider Requested Review 
A. Drug: Cefpodoxime Suspension 
1. Public comment by Dr. Emily Keller requesting that cefpodoxime suspension be added 
to the PDL due to its superior coverage for Streptococcus pneumoniae in pediatric 
patients with penicillin allergies. 
2. A motion was made by Garry Moreland to move Cefpodoxime suspension from non-
preferred to preferred status without prior authorization for all age groups. The motion 
was seconded by Dr. Arvind Goyal. 
3. The motion was passed unanimously. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
VIII. 
Department Updates 
A. Jose Jimenez provided updates regarding the reinstatement of the prior authorization 
system following a cyber-attack, with a 90-day transition period. 
IX. 
Adjournment: A motion to adjourn was made by Dr. Nicole Florence and seconded by Dr. Paul 
Berkowitz. The meeting was adjourned at 10:50 a.m. 
Approved by the DUR Advisory Board on: