STATE: Illinois
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/committeeondrugsandtherapeutics.html
SEED_URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/committeeondrugsandtherapeutics.html
SOURCE_ROLE: capped-crawl seed follow-up
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: text/html;charset=utf-8
TITLE: Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request | HFS

Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request | HFS 
Skip to main content 
Agencies 
Services 
Elizabeth M. Whitehorn, Director 
Home 
My Healthcare 
Medical Clients Home 
Medical Programs 
Change Your Medicaid Address 
For Parents & Children 
For Pregnant Women & Infants 
For Seniors 
For People with Disabilities 
For Veterans 
For Other Adults 
For Immigrants 
Medicaid Recovery 
Medical Providers 
Medical Providers Home 
Address Update Messaging Toolkit 
Behavioral Health 
Care Coordination 
COVID-19 Updates 
Electronic Visit Verification 
HFS Application Agent 
Hospitals and Institutional Providers 
Long Term Care 
Medicaid Technical Assistance Center 
MPE/FPPE Providers 
Non-Institutional Providers 
Nursing Home Payment Update 
Pharmacy 
Save Medicaid Toolkit 
Child Support Services 
About 
Attorneys 
Employers 
Family 1st 
Hospitals 
Parents 
Partnerships 
HFS OIG 
Community 
Community Outreach and Engagement 
Community Spotlight 
Request HFS in Your Community 
Upcoming Events Calendar 
Info Center 
Info Center Home 
Agency Brochures & Forms 
Facts & Figures 
For Media 
Legal Center 
Procurement Center 
Report Center 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Healthcare Transformation 
Success Stories 
Illinois Medicaid Renewals Info Center 
Federal Resource Center 
About Us 
Our Mission, Vision, and Values 
About Us 
Careers 
Director Whitehorn 
Executive Staff 
Phone Directory 
Boards and Commissions 
Office of Inspector General 
More 
Elizabeth M. Whitehorn, Director 
HFS 
Medical Providers 
Pharmacy 
Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request 
Pharmacy 
Pharmacy Home Page 
Search for Prior Approval Status by Drug 
Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request 
Four Prescription Policy Info 
Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board Agenda Request 
The department makes prior approval and Preferred Drug List (PDL) decisions in consultation with the Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board (D and T Advisory Board). The D and T Advisory Board is comprised of practicing clinicians representing various specialties who actively participate in the Illinois Medicaid Program. The Advisory Board makes recommendations based upon evidence-based clinical factors including safety, effectiveness, and outcomes. 
At its meetings, the D and T Advisory Board 1) reviews new pharmaceutical products and makes prior approval recommendations; 2) considers manufacturer appeals of previous prior approval and PDL recommendations; and 3) reviews the department’s recommendations for PDL classes under review 
You can view a list of  PDL Classes under review for the upcoming D and T meeting 
D and T Advisory Board Members 
Paul M. Berkowitz, M.D., F.A.C.L.P., F.A.P.A. 
Nicole Florence, M.D. 
Arvind Goyal, M.D., Medical Director, HFS 
Lisa Green-Hill, M.D. 
Garry Moreland, R.Ph. 
Mahesh C. Patel, M.D. 
Maurice M. Shaw, Pharm.D. 
Steven R. Sproat, R.Ph. 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez, M.D 
D and T Advisory Board Meeting Schedule 
D and T Advisory Board Meeting Schedule 2025 (pdf) 
D and T Advisory Board Meeting Schedule 2024 (pdf) 
D and T Advisory Board Meeting Agenda 
January 11, 2024 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
April 11, 2024 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
August 1, 2024 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
October 11, 2024 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
January 9. 2025 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
April 10, 2025 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
July 10, 2025 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
October 9, 2025 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
April 9, 2026 Meeting Agenda (pdf) 
D and T Advisory Board Meeting Minutes 
January 11, 2024 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
April 11, 2024 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
August 1, 2024 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
October 10,2024 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
January 9, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
April 10, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
July 10, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
October 9, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
January 8, 2026 Meeting Minutes (pdf) 
D and T Meeting Results 
Archived D and T Advisory Board Meeting Agenda and Minutes 
Archived D and T Meeting Results 
Archived D and T Agendas 
Archived D and T Agendas 
New Products 
New pharmaceutical products will require prior approval upon entry into the market. To request that the Drugs and Therapeutics Advisory Board review a new product, manufacturers should complete the  D and T Advisory Board Agenda Request Form . At the time the manufacturer requests review, they may also submit an offer of supplemental rebates to the Department by completing and submitting the offer form. Instructions for submission of the offer form are included within the offer form. 
Appeals 
Manufacturers wishing to appeal a decision on the status of their products with respect to prior approval or preferred drug list should complete the D and T Advisory Board Agenda Request Form . At the time the manufacturer requests the appeal, they may also submit an offer of supplemental rebates to the Department by completing and submitting the offer form. Instructions for submission of the offer form are included within the offer form.  
Instructions for Submission of Clinical Information 
Manufacturers whose products are being reviewed may submit clinical information to the Drugs and Therapeutics (D and T) Advisory Board and the Department. Manufacturers should submit a concise synopsis of their product.  This synopsis should be no more than four pages in length.  The Advisory Board is particularly interested in information that sets a drug apart from other drugs in its class or PDL category.  The Advisory Board is not interested in materials intended to market a product.   Complete the D and T Advisory Board Agenda Request Form .  
Footer 
Back to top 
Stay Informed 
Public Notices 
Provider Notices 
Facts & Figures 
Helpful Links 
Boards & Commissions 
Media Center 
Careers 
Web Accessibility 
Missing & Exploited Children 
Amber Alerts 
Illinois Privacy Info 
Governor JB Pritzker 
© 2026 
State of Illinois