STATE: Illinois
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/hfs/sitecollectiondocuments/07102025dtabmeetingminutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/committeeondrugsandtherapeutics.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: July 10, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf)
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board Meeting Minutes 
Date | Time: Thursday, July 10, 2025| 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
Location: This meeting was held virtually via Webex Webinar 
Audience: Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board 
Council Members Present: 
Chair (*) 
Vice Chair (**) 
Mahesh C. Patel, MD (*) 
Janet Albers, MD (**) 
Arvind Goyal, MD 
Nicole Florence, MD 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez, MD 
Paul Berkowitz Santina Wheat, MD 
Dr. Lisa Green, MD 
Maurice Shaw, PharmD 
Stephen Sproat 
Absences Recorded: 
Garry Moreland 
HFS and UIC Staff Present: 
Jen Phillips 
Claudia Colombo 
Melissa Davis 
Jennifer DeWitt 
Thomas Dorn 
Brianna Hudak 
Michael Welton 
Mary Moody 
Jose Jimenez 
Chintan Patel 
A. Call to Order, Roll Call: The meeting was called to order by Chairperson Dr. Mahesh C. 
Patel on Thursday, July 10, 2025, at 8:32 a.m. 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
B. Roll Call of Council Members: Dr. Patel facilitated roll call of board members. Quorum was 
confirmed. 
I. 
Conflict of Interest Declaration and Approval of Agenda: No D&T Advisory Board members 
had conflicts of interest pertinent to the agenda. Dr. Patel reminded the Board members to 
recuse themselves from the discussion if conflicts of interest are present. 
II. 
Review and Approval of Meeting Minutes: Dr. Goyal moved to approve the minutes from the 
April 10, 2025, meeting. Dr. Berkowitz seconded the motion. The motion was approved 
unanimously. 
III. 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) Drug Appeals 
A. Drug: Sutab and Suflave 
B. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Sutab and Suflave. 
C. Michael Beckelic, Director of Medical Affairs, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, Braintree 
Laboratories, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Sutab 
and Suflave. 
D. Board discussion on adherence and outcomes. 
E. The motion to move Sutab and Suflave to preferred without prior authorization was made by Dr. 
Albers and seconded by Dr. Vergara-Rodriguez. 
F. The unanimous motion was passed. 
IV. 
New Drug Appeals- None 
V. 
Provider Requested Review- None 
VI. 
Drug Class Review: Pancreatic Enzymes 
A. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of pancreatic enzymes. 
B. Eileen Potter, MS, RDN, Pediatric Dietician, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, Digestive 
Care, regarding the product Pertzye. 
C. Board members discussed clinical equivalence and tolerability amongst the various agents. 
D. The motion to keep Creon and Zenpep preferred and leave Pertzye and Viokace as non-
preferred. The motion was made by Dr. Patel and seconded Dr. Vergara-Rodriguez. 
E. The unanimous motion was passed. 
VII. 
New Drug Initial Reviews 
A. Drug: Cobenfy (xanomeline and trospium chloride) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Cobenfy. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
2. Patrick Boland PharmD, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Cobenfy. 
3. Board members discussed the lack of long-term data on Cobenfy and its appropriate 
place in therapy. 
4. The motion was made to table this vote to a later meeting until more long-term data is 
available. The motion was made by Dr. Berkowitz and was seconded by Dr. Goyal. 
5. The motion was passed. 
B. Drug: Alyftrek (vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Alyftrek 
2. Jessica Jay, Associate Director, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) 
for Alyftrek. 
3. Board members discussed whether Alyftrek should be moved from non-preferred to 
preferred based on the clinical guidelines, efficacy, and safety. 
4. The motion to keep Alyftrek non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by Dr. 
Vergara-Rodriguez and seconded by Dr. Patel. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
C. Drug: Neffy (Epinephrine nasal spray) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Neffy 
2. Ike Urhoghide, Medical Science Liaison, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, ARS 
Pharmaceuticals, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) 
for Neffy 
3. The board discussed the benefits of having a needle-free epinephrine option available. 
4. The motion to move Neffy from non-preferred to preferred was made by Dr. Florence 
and seconded by Dr. Albers. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
VIII. 
Public Comments: 
A. Lynn Lochner APRN and Tony Ohlhausen, Director of Research and Policy, spoke as 
requested by the manufacturer, Bristol Myers Squibb, advocating for preferred status on 
the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Cobenfy. 
B. Riya Jain, college student with personal experience, spoke as requested by the 
manufacturer, ARS Pharmaceuticals, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Neffy. 
IX. 
Future Agenda Preview 
A. The next D&T meeting is scheduled for October 9, 2025. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
X. 
Department Updates 
A. Jose Jimenez gave an update regarding the department’s progress in implementing 
legislation which will continue through January. 
XI. 
Adjournment: A motion to adjourn was made by Dr. Goyal and seconded by Dr. Albers. The 
meeting was adjourned at 10:43 a.m. 
Approved by the D&T Advisory Board on: