STATE: Illinois
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/content/dam/soi/en/web/hfs/about/boardsandcommisions/dur/documents/10092025dtmeetminutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://hfs.illinois.gov/medicalproviders/pharmacy/committeeondrugsandtherapeutics.html
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: October 9, 2025 Meeting Minutes (pdf)
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board Meeting Minutes 
Date | Time: Thursday, October 9th, 2025| 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
Location: This meeting was held virtually via Webex Webinar 
Audience: Drug and Therapeutics Advisory Board 
Board Members Present: 
Chair (*) 
Vice Chair (**) 
Mahesh C. Patel 
Janet Albers 
Arvind Goyal 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez 
Dr. Lisa-Green 
Maurice Shaw 
Stephen Sproat 
Garry Moreland 
Absences Recorded: 
Paul Berkowitz 
Nicole Florence 
HFS and UIC Staff Present: 
Jen Phillips 
Christine Denton 
Claudia Colombo 
Melissa Davis 
Jennifer DeWitt 
Thomas Dorn 
Brianna Hudak 
Mary Moody 
Jose Jimenez 
Chintan Patel 
Jerome Beverly 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
A. Call to Order, Roll Call: The meeting was called to order by Chairperson Dr. Mahesh C. 
Patel on Thursday, October 9th, 2025, at 8:42 a.m. 
B. Roll Call of Council Members: Dr. Patel facilitated roll call of board members. Quorum was 
confirmed. 
I. 
Conflict of Interest Declaration and Approval of Agenda: No D&T Advisory Board members 
had conflicts of interest pertinent to the agenda. Dr. Patel reminded the Board members to 
recuse themselves from the discussion if conflicts of interest are present. 
II. 
Review and Approval of Meeting Minutes: Dr. Lisa Green moved to approve the minutes 
from the July 10, 2025, meeting. Dr. Albers seconded the motion. The motion was approved 
unanimously. 
III. 
Review and Approval of Meeting Agenda: Dr. Goyal moved to approve the agenda for the 
October 9th, 2025, meeting. Dr. Albers seconded the motion. The motion was approved 
unanimously. 
IV. 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) Drug Appeals 
A. Drug: Orladeyo (berotralstat) 
B. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, providing an overview of the FDA-
approved indication, relevant clinical guidelines, supporting clinical studies, and the efficacy and 
safety profile of Orladeyo. 
C. Jeff Martin, Pharmacist, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, 
advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Orladeyo. 
D. Board discussion noted that while Orladeyo offers the advantage of being an oral treatment 
option, its use remains limited, with very few prescriptions or requests observed among 
Medicaid participants. 
E. The motion to keep Oraldeyo as non-preferred was made by Dr. Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez 
and seconded by Dr. Albers. 
F. The unanimous motion was passed. 
V. 
New Drug Appeals- None 
VI. 
Provider Requested Review- None 
VII. 
Drug Class Review: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) 
A. Presentation by Christine Denton, Department Clinical Pharmacist, providing an overview of the 
clinical guidelines, efficacy, and safety considerations of stimulant and non-stimulant 
medications used in the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). 
B. Jia Li, Pharmacist, spoke on behalf of the manufacturer, Supernus Pharmaceuticals, regarding 
Qelbree. 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
C. Board members discussed the benefits of having an additional non-stimulant option as preferred 
on the PDL. 
D. The motion to move Qelbree from non-preferred to preferred was made by Pamela Vergara-
Rodriguez and seconded by Dr. Lisa-Green. 
E. The unanimous motion was passed. 
VIII. 
New Drug Initial Reviews 
A. Drug: Jornavx (suzetrigine) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, providing an overview of 
the most recent clinical guidelines, FDA-approved indication, mechanism of action, and 
the efficacy and safety of Journavx, with a focus on its role in the management of acute 
pain. 
2. Jessica Jay, Pharmacist and Associate Director, spoke on behalf of Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) 
for Journavx. 
3. Board members discussed the emerging interest in Journavx, a voltage-gated sodium 
channel blocker for pain management, noting its potential value as an additional non-
opioid treatment option. As a newer agent with limited utilization and not considered a 
first-line therapy, the Board agreed to allow more time on the market to further evaluate 
its real-world effectiveness and clinical outcomes. 
4. The motion to keep it non-preferred was made by Dr. Patel and was seconded by 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez. 
5. The motion was passed. 
B. Drug: Symbravo (meloxicam and rizatriptan) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Symbravo. 
2. Jay Mehta, Pharmacist and Sr. Health outcomes Liaison, spoke on behalf of the 
manufacturer, Axsome, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List 
(PDL) for Symbravo. Jay Mehta spoke to how Symbravo represents a multi mechanistic 
approach to treating a migraine that targets multiple pathways and the underlying 
symptoms of migraine attacks 
3. Board members discussed Symbravo’s rapid onset and sustained relief as a potential 
additional option for the management of migraines. Board members also noted that 
other combination products, such as Treximet, already exist, and questioned why the 
two generic components could not be used separately instead of adopting this new 
combination formulation. It was further observed that the manufacturer appears to be 
marketing this product as a fast-acting form of meloxicam. 
4. The motion to keep Symbravo non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by 
Garry Moreland and seconded by Dr. Goyal. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
C. Drug: Attruby (acoramidis) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Attruby. 
2. Dr. Nitasha Sarswat, rare disease specialist and an advanced heart failure transplant 
cardiologist at University of Chicago, spoke on the management and treatment of 
cardiomyopathy and amyloidosis. Dr. Sarswat provided a discussion on Attruby in 
comparison to other agents listed on the Preferred Drug List (PDL) and offered 
recommendations regarding which therapy should be considered as the first-line option. 
3. Lisa Tracz, Pharmacist and Associate Director, spoke on behalf of BridgeBio, advocating 
for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Attruby. 
4. The Board discussed that there was no significant difference between Attruby and the 
other non-preferred options on the Preferred Drug List (PDL); therefore, no change to 
Attruby’s status was recommended. 
5. The motion to keep Attruby non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by Dr. 
Patel and seconded by Dr. Goyal. 
6. The motion was passed unanimously. 
D. Drug: Gomekli (mirdametinib) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Gomekli. 
2. Angelica Munoz, Pharmacist and Principal Medical Science Liaison, spoke on behalf of 
the manufacturer, SpringWorks Therapeutics, advocating for preferred status on the 
Illinois Preferred Drug List (PDL) for Gomekli. 
3. The Board discussed that since Gomekli was for a rare disease and that there was no 
significant difference between Gomekli and the other non-preferred options on the 
Preferred Drug List (PDL); therefore, no change to Gomekli’s status was recommended. 
4. The motion to keep Gomekli non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez and seconded by Dr. Albers. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
E. Drug: Duvyzat (givinostat) 
1. Presentation by Jen Phillips, Department Clinical Pharmacist, on the most recent clinical 
guidelines and the efficacy and safety of Duvyzat. 
2. Justin Alberts, Pharmacist and Medical Science Liaison, spoke on behalf of the 
manufacturer, ITF Therapeutics, advocating for preferred status on the Illinois Preferred 
Drug List (PDL) for Duvyzat. 
3. The Board discussed that Duvyzat is indicated for a rare disease and noted no 
significant difference between Duvyzat and the other non-preferred options on the 
Preferred Drug List (PDL). It was agreed that treatment decisions should be left to the 
discretion of the specialist; therefore, no change to Duvyzat’s status was recommended. 
4. The motion to keep Duvyzat non-preferred on the Illinois Medicaid PDL was made by 
Pamela Vergara-Rodriguez and seconded by Dr. Lisa-Green. 
5. The motion was passed unanimously. 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
IX. 
Public Comments: None 
X. 
Future Agenda Preview 
A. The next D&T meeting is scheduled for January 8th, 2026. 
XI. 
Department Updates: None 
XII. 
Adjournment: A motion to adjourn was made by Dr. Goyal and seconded by Dr. Albers. The 
meeting was adjourned at 10:44 a.m. 
Approved by the D&T Advisory Board on: 01/08/20206