STATE: Alaska\nURL: https://health.alaska.gov/media/zbbf3ot1/pnt_minutes_20240119.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://health.alaska.gov/en/education/pdl-preferred-drug-list/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 1 of 19 
 
Alaska Medicaid Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
January 19, 2024 
 
 
 
Committee Members Present:                              
John Riley, PA, Acting Chairman                                                 C
 
     
                              
Robert Carlson, MD  
 
 
 
Sara Atchison, PharmD 
 
              
Claudia Phillips, MD 
Charles Ryan, MD 
Trisha White, R.Ph. 
Valarie Bixler, PharmD 
 
Others Present: 
Ryan Ruggles, Pharm D 
Umang Patel 
Charles Semling PharmD, DHSS 
Matt Parrott 
Greg Sexton, GSK 
Ash Dave, AMGEN 
Christine Dube, AstraZeneca 
Long Nguyen, GSK 
Hiren Kachhia, AMGEN 
Erin Nowak, AbbVie 
Shirley Quach, Novartis 
Bernard Kim, AMGEN 
Mariola Vasquez, Dermavant 
Hiten Patadia, Incyte 
Valerie Ng, LEO Pharma 
 
                        Committee Members Absent: 
asey Gokey MD 
 
1.  
Call to Order – Chair 
 
Mr. Riley called the meeting to order. 
 
2.  
Roll Call 
 
The roll call was taken, and a quorum was present. 
 


--- Page 2 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 2 of 19 
 
3.  
Public Comments - Local Public/Health Practitioners 
 
None. 
 
4.  
Class Review, Discussion & Vote 
 
4-A. 
Respiratory: COPD Agents (Blue); Glucocorticoids, Inhaled, Single Entity (Green); 
Glucocorticoids, Inhaled, Combined (Blue); Beta Agonists Bronchodilators, Long 
(Green); Beta Agonists Bronchodilators, Short (Green); Immunomodulators (Red) 
 
Respiratory: COPD Agents (Blue)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for COPD Agents.  He started off with the disease 
state description and stated that in the 2023 edition of the Global Initiative for Chronic 
Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines described COPD as a heterogeneous lung 
condition characterized by chronic respiratory symptoms due to airway and/or alveoli 
abnormalities that cause persistent, often progressive, airflow obstruction.  It is estimated that in 
the US there are approximately 16  million individuals with COPD and COPD is the third 
leading cause of death.  Types of COPD include chronic bronchitis and pulmonary emphysema.  
Patients with chronic bronchitis experience intermittent airway inflammation and excessive 
mucus production that leads to frequent, prolonged episodes of productive cough. In its 2023 
update GOLD revised the definition of COPD to include bronchitis and emphysema.  He gave 
the GOLD guidelines for 2023.  GOLD classifies patients separately by both their GOLD 
severity and exacerbation/symptom assessment.   
 
In April 2023, the FDA announced the discontinuation of glycopyrrolate 25 mcg/mL nebulizer 
solution by Sunovion.  
 
In April 2023, the FDA approved the first generic for tiotropium bromide inhalation powder 18 
mcg/capsule (Spiriva HandiHaler) by Lupin. 
 
Utilization was about 98% in line with PDL.  Previous years motion Dr. Carlson moved the 
drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Mrs. White.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY VALARIE BIXLER. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Glucocorticoids, Inhaled, Single Entity (Green Class)/Respiratory: 
Glucocorticoids, Inhaled, Combination (Blue Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation for glucocorticoids, inhaled, single entity as well 
as glucocorticoids, inhaled, combination.  Given that one class was blue he allowed time for 
testimony.  He then gave the disease state description for glucocorticoids, inhaled. The 
prevalence of asthma in the US continues to rise.  Asthma is defined by the National Asthma 
Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) as a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways 


--- Page 3 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 3 of 19 
 
in which may cells and cellular elements play a role.  Studies have demonstrated the efficacy of 
inhaled corticosteroids in improving lung function, reducing symptoms, reducing frequency and 
severity of exacerbation, and improving the quality of life of patients with asthma.   
 
In 2023, the GINA guidelines offer a control based management plan to adjust treatment in a 
continuous cycle of assessment, treatment, and review of the patients’ responses as it related to 
symptom control, future risk of exacerbation, and side effects.  Equally important in this process 
is identifying the patients’ own goals regarding their asthma management to ensure improved 
outcomes in treatment may be added until control is achieved.  This can be a short term or 
sustained step up therapy.  If control is maintained for at least 3 months on the current regimen 
treatment can be stepped down to the lowest step and dosage that maintains control.  Patients 
should be started on treatment based on symptoms with infrequent symptoms beginning at step 1 
and patients with the most frequent, severe, or debilitating symptoms beginning at step 4.  
Notably, reliever therapy can be considered for symptom  management prior to exercise, if 
needed.   
 
The GINA 2021 guidelines describe two treatment tracks: track 1 and track 2.  In track 1 the 
reliever is as needed low dose ICS formoterol and in track 2 the reliever is an as needed short 
acting beta agonist which is the alternative approach when track 1 is not an option or is not 
preferred for patient specific reasons. 
 
In January 2023, the FDA approved a new combination of albuterol, a beta2-andrenergic agonist, 
and budesonide, a corticosteroid, indicated for as-needed treatment or prevention of 
bronchoconstriction and to reduce the risk of exacerbations in patients with asthma equal to or 
greater than 18 years of age.  He gave the indications, precautions, dosage, and availability. 
 
In May 2023, the maintenance treatment of asthma indication for Breo Ellipta 100/25 mcg has 
been expanded to include patients aged 12 – 17 years of age.  Umang gave the indications, 
dosage, and availability. 
 
In June 2023, the FDA posted that GSK would discontinue distribution of Flovent-HFA (44 mcg, 
110 mcg, 220mcg) & Flovent Diskus (50 mcg, 100 mcg, 250 mcg).  The last date for product 
ordering was 12/21/2023. 
 
Utilization was 90.3% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Carlson moved the drugs in the 
class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS STATED THAT SINCE THE CLASSES WERE COMBINED, SHE 
MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE 
AT LEAST ONE FROM EACH SUBCLASS, SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHION. 
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Public Comments for Glucocorticoids, Inhaled, Combination: 
 
CRAIG SEXTON, GSK Regional Account Manager, gave testimony for Trelegy.  He directed 
everyone to the full prescribing information for complete efficacy and safety.  Trelegy was the 


--- Page 4 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 4 of 19 
 
first and remains the only inhaler that combines the inhaled corticosteroid [unintelligible] and 
[unintelligible] with indications for both COPD and asthma.  These three medications are 
delivered in an easy to use device that is always administered once daily with a single inhalation.  
As mentioned, the GOLD guidelines recommend triple therapy which has been shown to 
improve lung function, patient reported outcomes, and reduce exacerbations when compared to 
[unintelligible] alone, [unintelligible] or ICS combinations.  Trelegy has enjoyed preferred status 
across 93 percent of all payers in the state of Alaska including the Alaksa PDL.  They ask that 
Trelegy remain an option for patients and providers on the PDL in 2024. 
 
Respiratory: Beta Agonists Bronchodilators, Short (Green Class) 
 
Given that this is a green class Umang moved right into utilization which was 16.3% in line with 
PDL. 
 
Previous motion Mrs. White moved a class effect to include both an inhaler and a nebulized 
product, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Dr. Semling pointed out that this is actually the information for short acting which Umang 
apologized for getting them mixed up.  
 
Dr. Semling stated that the utilization is low because most of the albuterol products the brand 
name is preferred.  He stated that they do anticipate a shift on the next PDL.  Matt Parrott stated 
that there has been significant discontinuations of the brand name products which will therefore 
drive some of the generic activity up.   
 
DR. RYAN MADE A MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE BOTH AN INHALER AND 
A NEBULIZED PRODUCT.  SECONDED BY DR. CARLSON. MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Beta Agonists Bronchodilators, Long (Green Class) 
 
This too was a green class so they moved right into utilization which was 100% in line with 
PDL.  
 
Previous motion Dr. Doran-Atchison moved that the drugs were therapeutic alternatives, 
seconded by Dr. Gokey.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Immunomodulators (Red Class) 
 
Umang Patel informed the committee that they updated the respiratory sub-classes to include 
asthma immunomodulators.  He gave the Magellan presentation for immunomodulators.  In 
February 2023, the FDA approved Tezepelumab-Ekko, Tezspire, a single-use 210 mg/1.9L mL 


--- Page 5 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 5 of 19 
 
autoinjector for self or caregiver administration.  He discussed the indications, precautions, 
contraindications, dosing, and formulations.   
 
Given that this is the first time this has been reviewed there is no utilization or previous motion.  
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
 
Public Comments for Immunomodulators 
 
ASH DAVE, Medical Value and Access Director for AMGEN, gave testimony on TEZSPIRE.  
This is a first in class human monoclonal antibody that blocks the action of acute epithelial 
cytokine TSLP that acts as an upstream modulator of multiple inflammatory pathways.  Tezspire 
is indicated for the add on treatment maintenance of severe asthma in adult and pediatric patients 
age 12 and older.  Tezspire is given as a 210 mg dose subcutaneously once every four weeks by a 
healthcare provider or self-administration and is the first and only biologic for severe asthma 
without phenotypic or biomarker limitations within its approved label.  Tezspire demonstrated 
significant reduction in annualized asthma exacerbation rates in two 52 week trials in patients 
with severe asthma receiving background therapy including medium or high dose inhaled 
corticosteroids.  Tezspire is the only [unintelligible] biologic to demonstrate consistently 
significant reduction in asthma exacerbations regardless of a patient’s biomarker status.  Tezspire 
has an established safety profile with the most common adverse events reported being 
pharyngitis, arthralgia, and back pain.  He provided the full label for reference.  GINA 
recommends Tezspire as an add on biologic therapy option for patients with both type 2 and non-
type 2 severe asthma.  AMGEN respectfully requested that the committee offers Tezspire on the 
state PDL as the preferred agent with utilization criteria that continues to be aligned to its label.  
He opened the floor for any questions. 
 
CHRISTINE DUBE, Clinical Account Director with AstraZeneca, gave testimony on Fasenra 
and its subcutaneous use.  Fasenra was approved in 2017 as indicated for add on maintenance of 
patients with severe asthma 12 years of age or older with an eosinophilic phenotype.  The 
recommended dose is 30 mg once every four weeks subcutaneously for the first three doses and 
then 30 mg every eight weeks thereafter by subcutaneous injection.  It is not indicated for the 
treatment of other eosinophilic conditions or for acute bronchospasm or status epilepticus.  She 
referred them to the full prescribing information.  It is the only anti-eosinophil monoclonal 
antibody that binds directly to the IL-5 receptor alpha on eosinophils.  It works rapidly to deplete 
eosinophils which can be a key cause of severe asthma.  It is given again as a fixed dose with no 
weight base dosing maintenance administered subcutaneous every eight weeks after those first 
three doses.  This is really important when you are modeling to understand that it is the only 
respiratory biologic that offers every eight week dosing having the fewest maintenance doses per 
year as either the 30 mg pre-filled or the self-administered auto injector pen.  In the phase 3 
registrational trials patients receiving Fasenra 30 mg versus placebo demonstrated significant 
reductions in asthma exacerbation, improved lung function, and reduced daily OCS use versus 
those on placebo.  OCS dependent patients also demonstrated reduction in OCS dose while 


--- Page 6 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 6 of 19 
 
maintaining asthma control.  An open label safety study extension showed consistent safety.  She 
referred them to the prescribing information for full safety profile.  AstraZeneca respectfully 
requested that Fasenra be added on the preferred drug list for patients in the Alaska Medicaid 
program. 
 
LONG NGUYEN, Field Medical Account Lead and Pharmacist with GSK, gave testimony on 
Nucala.  He stated that he information he shared is not new but he just wanted to reinforce how 
important Nucala is to patients with eosinophilic disorders.  Nucala is indicated for the 
maintenance treatment in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma, SEA, which is the largest 
population served by Nucala.  It is given subcutaneously every four weeks without the need of a 
loading dose and it is the only [unintelligible] agent with a pediatric indication down to the age 
of 6.  Nucala is available for both at home administration in pre-filled syringes or autoinjectors 
as well as in office dosage form to allow the flexibility for the patients to receive the medication 
whether they live in or close to a major metropolitan clinic or in a far hard to reach village.  
Since its approval in 2015, Nucala has a long standing history of safety and improved patient 
outcomes demonstrated by randomized clinical trials and open label studies.  A recent 
prospective designed real-world evidence study using patient level data shows that Nucala 
reduced clinically significant exacerbations by 71 percent after 12 months and 74 percent after 
24 months with continuing therapy.  Those who are on maintenance oral corticosteroid in the 
study at baseline the median oral clinical steroid dose was reduced from 10 mg daily at baseline 
to zero and 57 percent of the patients discontinued their need of daily OCS at 24 months in the 
real-world study.  Nucala is also indicated for other indications such as the treatment of chronic 
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps and it is the only medication approved for the treatment of 
eosinophilic driven rare disease such as EGPA or [unintelligible] or HES.  He asked the 
committee to make Nucala available and be added to the Alaska preferred drug list for patients 
with SEA. 
 
4-B. 
Allergy: Epinephrine, Self-Injected (Green); Intranasal Rhinitis Agents (Green); 
Leukotriene Modifiers (Green); Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating (Green)  
 
Allergy: Epinephrine, Self-Injected (Green Class) 
 
Given that this is a green class Umang moved directly into utilization. 
 
Utilization was 99.7% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Doran-Atchison moved that the 
drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Dr. Carlson.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Allergy: Intranasal Rhinitis Agents (Green Class) 
 


--- Page 7 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 7 of 19 
 
This too is a green class so they moved directly to utilization.  Utilization was 99.1% in line with 
PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The 
motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED A CLASS EFFECT.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Allergy: Leukotriene Modifiers (Green Class) 
 
Given this is a green class they moved directly to utilization.  Utilization was 99.8% in line with 
PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Doran-Atchison moved a class effect to exclude Zileuton, seconded 
by Dr. Ryan.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO EXCLUDE ZILEUTON.  
SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Allergy: Antihistamines, Minimally Sedating (Green Class) 
 
This is another green class so they moved directly to utilization.  Utilization was 96.6% in line 
with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect to include an oral syrup or a 
suspension for pediatric dosing, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE AN ORAL SYRUP OR 
SUSPENSION FOR PEDIATRIC DOSING.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-C. 
Immunological: Cytokine & CAM Antagonists, Non-GI Indications (Red); 
Immunosuppressants, Oral (Blue)  
 
Immunological: Cytokine & CAM Antagonists, Non-GI Indications (Red Class) 
 
Umang Patel opened for testimony given this is a red class.  He reminded the committee that 
they are only reviewing the non-GI indications as they reviewed the GI indications at the 
September meeting.   
 
Public Comments for Cytokine & CAM Antagonists, Non-GI Indications 
 
HIREN KACHHIA, Senior Medical Science Liaison for AMGEN, gave clinical updates on 
Otezla.  AMGEN is requesting that the committee deem Otezla as a preferred drug on the state 
PDL.  Otezla is a small molecule drug that inhibits the activity of [unintelligible] cells.  It is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with oral ulcers associated with Behcet’s disease, 
adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis, and adult patients with all severities of plaque 
psoriasis who are candidates for portal therapy or systemic therapy.  Additional trials support the 
efficacy and safety of Otezla in adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and 
genitals.  Otezla is administered orally 30 mg twice daily.  It is not a biologic treatment requiring 


--- Page 8 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 8 of 19 
 
injection and does not have a boxed warning for serious infections, malignancy, major adverse 
cardiovascular events, and thrombosis.  The  most common adverse reaction is greater than or 
equal to 5 percent for Otezla are diarrhea, nausea, and headache.  The 2020 joint American 
Academy of Dermatology National Psoriasis Foundation Guidelines of Care for the management 
of psoriasis with systemic non-biological therapies recommends the use of Otezla for the 
treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis in adults.  The 2018 American College of 
Rheumatology MPF Guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis categorized Otezla as an 
oral small molecule and supports its use in defined patient populations. 
 
SHIRLEY QUACH, Value Evidence Lead with Novartis, gave updated information for 
Cosentyx.  Cosentyx is the first and only [unintelligible] human IL-17A inhibitor with over 8 
years of market experience and spans across 8 approved inflammatory conditions.  On October 
21, 2023, the FDA approved Cosentyx as the first IL-17A biologic indicated for the treatment of 
adults with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa or HS.  Recommended dosage is 300 mg 
by sub-q injection at weeks 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 and every 4 weeks thereafter.  If a patient does not 
adequately respond consider increasing the dosage to 300 mg every 2 weeks.  The SUNSHINE 
and SUNRISE trials were the largest phase 3 program in HS with over 1,000 patients in 40 
countries and evaluated the short and long term efficacy, safety, and tolerability of two dose 
regimens of Cosentyx in adults with moderate to severe HS.  The onset of actions of Cosentyx 
occurred as early as week two and a statistically significantly higher proportion of patients 
treated with Cosentyx 300 mg every 2 weeks after the loading dosage achieved the primary 
endpoint high score of 50 response at week 16 compared with patients treated with placebo.  
High score values observed at week 16 following either dose regimen of Cosentyx were 
improved over time to week 52 with rapid improvement seen in patients who switched from 
placebo at week 16.  Cosentyx safety profile in HS was consistent with the well established 
profile in other approved indications and no new safety signals were observed.  HS is a painful, 
chronic, and [unintelligible] inflammatory skin disease that causes recurring boil like abscesses 
that burst and create open wounds in the most intimate parts of the body.  It takes people living 
with HS an average of up to 10 years to get a correct diagnosis which results in disease 
progression and significantly impacts their quality of life.  Prior to this approval there was only 
one approved treatment option available and there was a significant need for alternatives to 
reduce the disabling physical symptoms and improve the emotional burden of HS.  Cosentyx can 
offer effective lasting relief from HS symptoms so that people with HS have a chance to live 
every day with confidence.  To date, Cosentyx has been prescribed to over 1 million patients 
world-wide since its launch in 2015 with over 100 clinical studies and over 8 years of robust 
real-world clinical experience.  She thanked the committee for their time. 
 
BERNARD KIM, Regional Medical Director AMGEN, gave testimony on UPLIZNA or 
inebilizumab.  UPLIZNA is used to treat neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD).  
NMOSD is a rare autoimmune disorder characterized by repeated attacks of optic neuritis and 
transverse myelitis leading to accumulating and permanent disability including loss of vision and 
impairment and weakness in the extremities.  Evidence has shown it is historically unlikely that 
NMOSD patients receive an accurate diagnosis within a year of initial symptom onset and over a 
third of patients will likely experience a delay in confirmed and accurate diagnosis of 3 to 5 
years.  NMOSD attacks are unpredictable and patients are likely to experience at least one attack 
yearly after diagnosis.  Around 50 percent will also be hospitalized for attacks within the first 


--- Page 9 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 9 of 19 
 
year of diagnosis.  Given the high risk for permanent disability timely access to FDA approved 
treatments like inebilizumab or UPLIZNA is necessary.  He asked the committee to consider the 
pivotal evidence which proved that the depletion of aquaporin-4 antibody producing plasma 
blasts is safe, effective, and well tolerated in NMOSD.  He discussed trial information.  The need 
for timely treatment in NMOSD is real.  AMGEN asks that the committee consider current 
criteria and provide patients with prompt access to inebilizumab without barriers to access.  He 
thanked the committee for their time. 
 
ERIN NOWAK, Medical Outcomes and Science Liaison with AbbVie, gave testimony on 
risankizumab, Skyrizi, and upadacitinib, Rinvoq.  She first spoke on risankizumab which is an 
IL-23 antagonist with preapproved indications for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, psoriatic 
arthritis, and moderate to severe Crohn’s disease.  It is contraindicated in patients with a history 
of serious hypersensitivity to risankizumab or its excipients.  She referred the committee to 
rxabbvie.com for full prescribing information.  She asked the risankizumab, Skyrizi, be added to 
the preferred drug list for all indications.  She next spoke about upadacitinib which is a JAK 
inhibitor and is approved for adult patients with the following indications who have an 
inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers.  The indications are moderate 
to severely active ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and non-radiographic axial spondylarthritis with objective 
[unintelligible] inflammation.  It is indicated for patients 12 and older with refractory moderate 
to severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug 
products or when those therapies are inadvisable.  Both drugs offer rapid and durable response, 
demonstrate significant improvement in [unintelligible], and [unintelligible] across clinical 
programs, and are capable of helping patients achieve the recommended outcome.  There is a 
favorable benefit risk profile.  For upadacitinib this is evident through 25 clinical trials across 7 
indications.  To date there has been over 37,000 patient years of exposure, over 13,000 patients 
enrolled in clinical trials, and over 12 years of clinical trial experience showing a consistent 
safety profile.  Of note, upadacitinib is an oral option which may be advantageous.  It has a PDL 
therapy for Alaskan’s living in rural areas.  It may be beneficial where assistance for assistance 
and education on parental administration may be limited for patients.  She respectfully asked that 
upadacitinib, Rinvoq, be added to the state preferred drug list for all indications given the clinical 
attributes, [unintelligible] indications, and being an oral therapy which may benefit Alaska 
patients.  She thanked the committee for their time. 
 
There were no other people wishing to give testimony.  Umang then went into the disease state 
description on cytokines and cell-adhesion molecules (CAMs).  They are chemical mediators 
involved in inflammatory processes throughout the body.  He then went into some background 
and guidelines on Hidradenitis Suppurativa.  Next, he gave background information and 
guidelines on uveitis.  Then he gave the background and guidelines information for ankylosing 
spondylitis.  The next topic he spoke on was recurrent pericarditis for which he gave the 
background and guideline information for.  Next, he gave the background and guidelines for 
polymyalgia rheumatica (PR).   
 
In 2023, the FDA approved sarilumab, Kevzara, as the first biologic for the treatment of adults 
with PMR who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids or who cannot tolerate 
corticosteroid taper. 


--- Page 10 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 10 of 19 
 
 
Lastly, he gave the background and guideline information on atopic dermatitis.   
 
In February 2023, the FDA expanded the indication for abrocitinib, Cibinqo, to include pediatric 
patients greater than or equal to 12  years of age with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose 
disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or 
when use of those therapies is inadvisable, previously approved only in adults. Hey then gave the 
indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations for abrocitinib.  
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved sarilumab, Kevzara, for the treatment of adults with 
polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids or who 
cannot tolerate a steroid taper.  Previously approved for treatment of RA.  He gave the 
indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations. 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Cyltezo, adalimumab-adbm (interchangeable Humira 
biosimilar), for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurative in adults.  
Previously approved indications include RA, JIA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, and PsO.  In May 2023, the 
FDA approved a new 40 mg/0.8mL single dose prefilled autoinjector pen presentation.  In July 
2023, the FDA approved it for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and 
panuveitis in adults.  Umang then gave the indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, 
and formulations.   
 
In July 2023, several adalimumab (Humira) biosimilars have launched per manufacturer press 
releases.  These commercially available Humira biosimilars on the market include adalimumab-
adbm (Cyltezo) from Boehringer Ingelheim, adalimumab-bwwd (Hadlima) from Organon, 
adalimumab-fkjp (Hulio) from Biocon, adalimumab-adaz (Hyrimoz) high concentration from 
Sandoz, adalimumab-aacf (Idacio) from Fresenius Kabi, adalimumab-aaty (Yuflyma) from 
Celltrion, and adalimumab-aqvh (Yusimry) from Coherus.  All products are available as a low 
concentration formulation except Hyrimoz and Yuflyma.  Hadlima, Hyrimoz, and Yufyma are 
available as high concentration formulations.  Citrate-free formulations include Cyltezo, Hadlima 
(high concentration), Hulio, Hyrimoz (high concentration), Idacio, Yuflyma, and Yusimry.  
Cyltezo is interchangeable with Humira. 
 
In June 2023, the FDA approved adalimumab-bwwd (Hadlima) for the treatment of moderate to 
severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults.  In July 2023, the FDA approved Hadlima for the 
treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  Umang went over 
the indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations.   
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Amjevita (Humira biosimilar) for the treatment of moderate 
to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults.  In August 2023, the FDA approved new high-
concentration presentations of 20 mg/0.2 mL, 40 mg/0.4 mL, and 80 mg/0.8 mL prefilled 
syringe; and 40 mg/0.4 mL and 80 mg/0.8 mL prefilled autoinjector.  He then gave the 
indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations. 
 
In September 2023, the FDA approved Ilaris for gout flares in adults in whom NSAIDs and 
colchicine are contraindicated or not tolerated, or do not provide an adequate response and in 


--- Page 11 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 11 of 19 
 
whom repeated courses of corticosteroids are not appropriate.  Indications, precautions, dosing, 
and formulations were reviewed. 
 
In September 2023, the FDA approved Hulio for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, 
posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  Indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and 
formulations were reviewed. 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Yusimry (Humira biosimilar) as a single-dose 40 mg/0.8 mL 
prefilled autoinjector pen.  Yusimry was previously approved as a prefilled syringe.  In April 
2023, the FDA approved Yusimry for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa in adults.  In September 2023, the FDA approved Yusimry for the treatment of non-
infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  Indications, precautions, 
contraindications, dosing, and formulations were reviewed. 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Hyrimoz (citrate-free Humira biosimilar) as a high-
concentration formulation in the presentation of 10 mg/0.1 mL and 20mg/0.2 mL prefilled 
syringe as well as 40 mg/0.4 mL and 80 mg/0.4 mL prefilled syringe or autoinjector.  In April 
2023, the FDA approved Hyrimoz for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa in adults.  In September 2023, the FDA approved Hyrimoz for the treatment of non-
infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  Indications, precautions, 
contraindications, dosing, and formulations were reviewed. 
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved Yuflyma, a biosimilar to Humira.  The indications are for RA, 
JIA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, and HS.  There is a black box warning for serious infections as well 
as malignancy.  Dosing is stratified by indication and can be found in TCR and/or PI.  
Formulations are injection as a single dose prefilled autoinjector 40 mg/0.4 mL, single dose 
prefilled syringe with safety guard 40 mg/0.4 mL, or single dose prefilled syringe 40 mg/0.4 mL. 
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved tocilizumab-bavi (Tofidence) as the first biosimilar to 
Actemra.  It is an IL-6 receptor antagonist indicated for certain adults with RA and patients 
greater than or equal to 2 years of age with polyarticular JIA or systemic JIA.  Indications, 
precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations were given. 
 
In June 2023, the FDA approved Abrilada for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa in adults.  In August 2023, the FDA approved Abrilada for the treatment of non-
infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  In October 2023, Abrilada was 
designated by the FDA as an interchangeable biosimilar to the corresponding presentations of 
Humira.  This interchangeable designation applies to all indications.  Umang then gave the 
indications, dosing, and formulations. 
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved ustekinumab-auub (Wezlana) as an interchangeable 
biosimilar to ustekinumab (Stelara).  Indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and 
formulations were given.   
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved bimekizumab-bkzx (Bimzelx) a humanized interleukin-17A 
and F antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe PsO in adults who are 


--- Page 12 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 12 of 19 
 
candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy.  Indications, precautions, contraindications, 
dosing, and formulations were given. 
 
  In November 2023, the FDA approved ustekinumab (Wezlana) as an interchangeable biosimilar 
to ustekinumab (Stelara).  Indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations 
were given.   
 
In November 2023, the FDA expanded the SC use of Orencia for the treatment of active PsA to 
include patients two years of age or older.  There were no changes to the precautions or 
formulations.  Dosing is weight based.   
 
In October of 2023, the FDA approved Idacio for the treatment of moderate to severe 
hidradenitis suppurativa in adults.  In November 2023, the FDA approved Idacio for the 
treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults.  Indications, 
precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations were stated. 
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved Cosentyx as the first IV formulation IL-17A antagonist for 
the treatment of adults with active PsA, active AS, and active non-radiographic axial 
spondylarthritis with objective signs of inflammation.  In November 2023, the FDA approved 
Cosentyx for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults.  Indications, 
precautions, contraindications, dosing, and formulations were given. 
 
Utilization was 72.8% in line with PDL. 
 
Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved that the drugs were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Mrs. 
White.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Dr. Phillips had a question.  She stated that she noticed there are no oral preparations on the 
preferred drug list and asked if that is a need they are missing.  [Unsure who spoke] replied 
stating that they are looking into that now.  She is wondering if that should be added as part of 
the proposal. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE ORAL PREPARATION, SECONDED 
BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Immunological: Immunosuppressants, Oral (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for Immunosuppressants, Oral.  He gave the 
disease state description which included the sequence of events in graft rejection.   
 
In September 2023, the FDA sent out a communication on tacrolimus stating that the therapeutic 
equivalence rating for tacrolimus oral capsules manufactured by Accord is being changed by the 
FDA from AB to BX due to concern for increased peak blood concentrations of the generic 
product compared to brand Prograf, which may increase toxicity risks.  Accord’s tacrolimus oral 
capsules are no longer recommended to be automatically substituted at the pharmacy for Prograf 


--- Page 13 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 13 of 19 
 
oral capsules.  FDA is not aware of post market safety or efficacy issues for Accord’s tacrolimus 
oral capsules, and no significant difference in trough blood levels (no increased risk for organ 
rejection) were observed.  Generic tacrolimus products by other manufacturers are not affected 
by this change. 
 
Utilization was about 86.2% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved that the drugs 
be moved to therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Dr. Carlson.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNTIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. CARLSON.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-D. 
Dermatological: Antipsoriatics, Topical (Blue); Immunomodulators, Atopic 
Dermatitis (Blue); Topical Steroids, Low Potency (Green); Topical Steroids, 
Medium Potency (Green); Topical Steroids, High Potency (Green); Topical 
Steroids, Very High Potency (Green); Acne, Topical (Blue) 
 
Dermatological: Antipsoriatics, Topical (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on antipsoriatics, topical.  He started by giving the 
disease state description of psoriasis. 
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved roflumilast cream, 0.3% (Zoryve) for topical treatment of 
plaque psoriasis including intertriginous areas, in patients ages six to eleven years of age.  
Zoryve had previously been approved for patients greater than or equal to 12 years of age.  
Indication, dosage, warnings, precautions, and availability were given. 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved the first generic to Leo’s Enstilar 
(calcipotriene/betamethasone dipropionate) topical foam from Glenmark. 
 
Utilization was 85.6% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class 
were therapeutic alternative, seconded by Dr. Gokey.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY TRISH WHITE.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Public Comments for antipsoriatics, topical 
 
MARIOLA VAZQUEZ, Health Outcomes Director with Dermavant, gave testimony on Vtama, 
tapinarof 1% cream which is a once daily novel steroid free topical treatment option for adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis.  Vtama is a therapeutic option that is a first in class topical 
[unintelligible] carbon receptor agonist.  Vtama has been evaluated through a comprehensive 
clinical development program of over 1,000 patients with mild to severe plaque psoriasis which 
were enrolled into identical phase 3 trials that were each 12 weeks long and then followed by a 
40 week open label long term extension trial.  Vtama has demonstrated highly statistical clinical 


--- Page 14 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 14 of 19 
 
significant efficacy across primary and key secondary endpoints.  She discussed the trials in 
detail.  Vtama cream offers patients and physicians a new highly efficacious safe, well-tolerated, 
potentially cost saving, therapeutic option that can be used long-term across the psoriasis disease 
spectrum.  Vtama has no restrictions on application sites and provides a durable effect and may 
provide an effect of therapy for almost four months.  They respectfully asked that the committee 
consider adding Vtama to the preferred drug list. 
 
 
Dermatological: Immunomodulators, Atopic Dermatitis (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on immunomodulators, atopic dermatitis.  He 
started with the disease state description of atopic dermatitis.   
 
In 2023, The American Academy of Dermatology updated their guidelines.  Umang discussed 
these guidelines.   
 
Utilization was roughly 95% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Doran-Atchison moved that 
the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives to include at least one pediatric approved 
preparation, seconded by Dr. Ryan.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. CARLSON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE PEDIATRIC APPROVED 
PREPARATION.  SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Public Comments for immunomodulators, atopic dermatitis 
 
HITEN PATADIA, Health Outcomes Liaison with Incyte, gave testimony on Opzelura.  Incyte 
is respectfully requesting that Opzelura be made available to patients in Alaska with similar steps 
for approval as other agents in atopic dermatitis.  Incyte also respectfully requested that Opzelura 
be made available to patients with non-segmental vitiligo at an interval consistent with the 
assessment of the primary endpoint in the phase 3 clinical trial which was about 24 weeks and 
preferably longer.  In the interest of time the committee was referred to the prescriber 
information for the full indication statement.  He gave presentation on clinical trial data. 
 
VALERIE NG, Director and Medical Outcomes Liaison with LEO Pharma, gave testimony on 
Adbry, tralokinumab.  Adbry is the first biologic developed to specifically target and neutralized 
NR [unintelligible] which is a key cytokine that drives inflammation in atopic dermatitis, AD.  
With this targeted mechanism of action Adbry has been prescribed for over 12,000 patients.  
Most recently two separate guidelines which are the 2023 American Academy of Dermatology 
and the 2023 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology guidelines for the 
systemic treatment of AD included a strong recommendation for Adbry as a first line systemic 
treatment for moderate to severe AD.  Most recently Adbry has received FDA approval for the 
treatment of moderate to severe AD in patients aged 12 years and older whose disease is not 
adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or when those therapies are not 
advisable.  The approved dose for patients ages 12 – 17 is different than that of the adult.  She 


--- Page 15 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 15 of 19 
 
referred the committee to the full prescribing information for the dosing recommendation.  She 
then went on to give the open label extension data.  The monthly dosing option may lead to a 
reduction of dose volume and acquisition cost over time and is now further supported by real-
world evidence with results ranging from 14 – 32 percent of patients switching from every 2 
weeks to every 4 weeks.  They asked the committee to consider adding Adbry to the PDL as a 
preferred product for patients 12 years of age and older suffering from moderate to severe AD 
who have had an inadequate response to topical prescription therapies. 
 
Dermatological: Topical Steroids, Low Potency (Green Class) 
 
Given that this is a green class they went straight into utilization. 
 
Utilization was 90.9% in line with PDL. 
 
Dermatological: Topical Steroids, Medium Potency (Green Class) 
 
Given that this is a green class they moved right to utilization. 
 
Utilization was approximately 81% in line with PDL. 
 
Dermatological: Topical Steroids, High Potency (Green Class) 
 
Another green class so they moved right into utilization.   
 
Utilization was 95.7% in line with PDL. 
 
Dermatological: Topical Steroids, Very High Potency (Green Class) 
 
Utilization was 95.4% in line with PDL. 
 
Umang bundled all of the topical steroids into one group since they are all the same just different 
potencies.   
 
Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect within each potency group and to include at least 
one ointment and one cream from each potency group and to amend the motion to a class effect 
within each potency group and to include at least one ointment, one cream, and one pediatric 
formulation from each potency group.  This was seconded by Dr. Gokey and passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT WITHIN EACH POTENCY GROUP AND 
TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE OINTMENT, ONE CREAM, AND ONE PEDIATRIC 
FORMULATION FROM EACH POTENCY GROUP.  SECONDED BY TRISH WHITE.  
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Dermatological: Acne, Topical (Blue Class) 
 


--- Page 16 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 16 of 19 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on acne, topical. He gave the disease state 
description on acne vulgaris.   
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved Cabtreo, a topical gel comprised of clindamycin 1.2%, and 
adapalene 0.15%, benzoyl peroxide 3.1%; first triple-combination topical treatment for acne 
vulgaris.  Indications, warnings, precautions, dosing, and availability were given. 
 
In September 2023, the DFA approved the first generic for Retin-A-Micro 0.08% topical gel by 
Encube. 
 
Utilization was approximately 84% in line with PDL.  Prior motion Dr. Doran-Atchison moved 
the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives to include at least one drug from each 
subclass and at least one combination benzoyl peroxide and antibiotic, seconded by Dr. Ryan.  
The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE DRUG FROM 
EACH SUBCLASS AND AT LEAST ONE COMBINATION BENZOYL PEROXIDE 
AND ANTIBIOTIC.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE  MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-E. 
Ophthalmics: Ophthalmic, Allergic Conjunctivitis (Blue); Ophthalmic, Antibiotics 
(Green); Ophthalmic, Antibiotics-Steroid Combination (Green); Ophthalmic, Anti-
inflammatory (Green); Ophthalmic, Glaucoma Agents (Red); Ophthalmic, 
Immunomodulators (Blue) 
 
Ophthalmics: Allergic Conjunctivitis (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ophthalmics, allergic conjunctivitis. He gave the 
disease state description for allergic conjunctivitis to include conjunctivitis and vernal 
keratoconjunctivitis (VKC).   
 
In July 2023, the FDA approved the first generic for OTC Lastacraft (alcaftadine) 0.25% 
ophthalmic solution by Eugia.   
 
Utilization was roughly 79% in line with the PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs 
in the class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Mrs. White.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmics: Antibiotics (Green Class) 
 
Given that this is a green class they moved directly to utilization. 


--- Page 17 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 17 of 19 
 
 
Utilization was 94.5% in line with PDL. 
 
Ophthalmics: Antibiotics-Steroid Combination (Green Class) 
 
Utilization was 96.8% in line with PDL. 
 
Previous motions:  Dr. Ryan moved a class effect for each subclass of the ophthalmic antibiotics 
and that the drugs in the ophthalmic antibiotics-steroid combination were therapeutic 
alternatives, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT FOR EACH SUBCLASS OF THE 
OPHTHALMIC ANTIBIOTICS AND THAT THE DRUGS IN THE OPHTHALMIC 
ANTIBIOTICS-STEROID COMBINATION WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES.  
SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmics: Anti-Inflammatory (Green Class) 
 
Utilization was 92.5% in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class 
were therapeutic alternatives to include one drug from each subclass, seconded by Dr. Gokey.  
The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE ONE DRUG FROM EACH SUBCLASS.  SECONDED 
BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmics: Glaucoma Agents (Red Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ophthalmics, glaucoma agents.  He gave the 
disease state description on glaucoma.  Approximately 3 million people in the US suffer from 
glaucoma. It is the second most common cause of permanent blindness in the US.  It is the 
leading cause of blindness among Hispanics and the second most common cause of blindness in 
African Americans.  Two major types of glaucoma have been identified as open-angle and 
closed-angle.  In open-angle glaucoma there is reduced flow through the trabecular meshwork.  
Open-angle glaucoma accounts for the  majority of cases.  In close-angle glaucoma the iris is 
pushed forward against the trabecular meshwork blocking fluid from escaping.  Risk factors for 
the development of glaucoma include elevated IOP, advancing age (greater than 60 years of age), 
family history of glaucoma, and African American (greater than 40 years of age) or Hispanic 
descent.  The goal of treatment is to maintain the IOP in a range at which the optic nerve head 
and retinal nerve fiber layer are stable as well as preserve visual function and quality of life over 
their lifetime.  Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma commonly have untreated IOP that is 
within the normal range however decreasing pressure is still beneficial in these patients.   
 
In January 2023, the FDA has approved the first generic to Allergan’s Alphagan P from Apotex 
as brimonidine tartrate. 
 


--- Page 18 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 18 of 19 
 
In March 2023, Apotex is voluntarily recalling six lots of brimonidine tartrate 0.15% ophthalmic 
solution due to cracks in some of the caps on bottles. 
 
In October 2023, the FDA approved pilocarpine HCI (Qlosi) a cholinergic agonist, indicated for 
the treatment of presbyopia in adults.  Warnings, indications, precautions, dosage, and 
availability were given. 
 
Utilization was 91% in line with PDL. 
 
Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives to include 
at least one drug from each subclass, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE DRUG FROM EACH SUBCLASS.  
SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmics: Immunomodulators (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ophthalmics, immunomodulators.  He went 
ahead and gave the disease state description for keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS).   
 
In June 2023, the FDA approved cyclosporine ophthalmic solution 0.1% (Vevye) for treatment 
of dry eye disease in adults.  Indication, warnings, precautions, dosage, and availability were 
given. 
 
Utilization was 31.9% in line with PDL.  Umang stated that the reason for the utilization being 
that low is that there is generic medication that is non-preferred that shifted the utilization as a 
class. 
 
Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded 
by Dr. Gokey.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. RYAN.  THE MOTION PASSES WITH 1 NAY.  
 
TRISH WHITE stated that she is voting nay because the challenges when there is a generic 
available is inventory and when you are a small community pharmacy and so when you 
have to carry a supply that satisfies depending on who the payer is and she just wants to go 
on the record that is a challenge so she is saying nay. 
 
5. 
End of Public Meeting 
6.  
Review meeting minutes from November 2023 
 
There were no changes to the meeting minutes of November 2023. 
 


--- Page 19 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 19, 2024 
Page 19 of 19 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED TO APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 
2023. SECONDED BY DR. DORAN ATCHISON. THE MOTION WAS PASSED BY ALL 
MEMBERS.\n