STATE: Alaska\nURL: https://health.alaska.gov/media/ipoawq1l/pnt_minutes_20221118.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://health.alaska.gov/en/education/pdl-preferred-drug-list/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 1 of 28 
 
Alaska Medicaid Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
November 18, 2022 
 
 
 
Committee Members Present:                                                      Committee Members Absent: 
John Riley, PA, Acting Chairman                                                    Jonathan Harrison, PharmD 
Robert Carlson, MD 
Diane Liljegren, R.Ph. 
Matthew Bagay Bruno,  
Sarah Doran-Atchison, PharmD 
Claudia Phillips, MD 
Charles Ryan, MD 
Trish White, R.Ph. 
 
Others Present: 
Ryan Ruggles, Pharm D 
Charles Semling PharmD 
Kristie Kapinas, Vertex 
Lynda Finch, BioGen 
Shirley Kwatch, Novartis 
Debbie Sheppe, Neurelis 
Kenneth Berry, Alkermes 
Julia Overman, Corium 
Tammy Martin, Biohaven 
Charlie Lovan, AbbVie 
Rochelle Yang, Teva 
 
1.  
Call to Order – Chair 
 
Mr. Riley called the meeting to order. 
 
2.  
Roll Call 
 
The roll call was taken, and a quorum was present. 
 
3.  
Public Comments - Local Public/Health Practitioners 
 
None. 
 


--- Page 2 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 2 of 28 
 
4.  
Class Review, Discussion & Vote 
 
4-A. 
Cystic Fibrosis: CFTR potentiator class (Red); Inhaled Antibiotics (Green); Pancreatic 
Enzymes (Green) 
 
Cystic Fibrosis: CFTR potentiator class (Red Class)  
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation for Cystic Fibrosis: CFTR potentiator class.  
Cystic fibrosis is a serious autosomal recessive multi organ disorder.  It affects approximately 
31,411 children and adults in the US, and is the most common fatal genetic disease in 
Caucasians.  The median survival rate in patients with cystic fibrosis is about 50 years with 80% 
reaching adulthood.  Children are anticipated to live to approximately 40 years of age with 
current treatments, and in 2020 adults comprised about 57.2% of the CF population, while in 
1990, they comprised approximately 32.1%.  Mutations lead to the disease of the exocrine gland 
function resulting in the formation of a thick mucus that builds up in the lungs, digestive tract 
and other parts of the body.  CFTR functions as a chloride channel, and mutations in here lead to 
abnormalities in the chloride transport along the epithelial cells on mucosal surfaces.  The goals 
of treatment are maintaining lung function by controlling infections or mucus, maintaining 
appropriate growth by providing nutritional support and managing disease complications. 
 
Treatment guidelines were reviewed.  
 
In December 2020, the FDA approved Kalydeco for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients 
aged four to less than six months of age, and weighing 5 kilograms or more, who have one or 
more mutations in the CFTR genetics responsive to Ivacaftor based on clinical and/or in-vitro 
assay data.  Previously, this was only approved in patients six months of age or greater. There are 
no other changes to the dosage or availability.  This medication is a Category B as in beta 
pregnancy class.  There is no dose adjustment for patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment and there are no studies for severe or end stage renal disease in this medication. 
 
In September 2022, the FDA approved an expanded indication for Orkambi for the treatment of 
CF in patients greater than or equal to 1 year of age who are homozygous for the F508del 
mutation and a CFTR gene, previously indicated for patients greater than or equal to 2 years of 
age.  
 
Public Comments for Cystic Fibrosis: CFTR potentiator class (Red Class)  
 
KRISTIE KAPINAS, a representative of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, provided public testimony on 
behalf of Vertex CFTR modulators.  CFTR modulators are the only medications for CF that 
work by targeting the underlying cause of CF. There are currently four CFTR modulators 
approved for the treatment of CF, based on age and genotype. The four modulators are Trikafta, 
Symdeko, Orkambi and Kalydeco. 
 
In September 2022 the FDA approved the expanded use of these medications to include children 
ages 12 to less than 24 months who are homozygous for the F505del CFTR mutation. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 3 of 28 
 
Orkambi was previously approved by the FDA for use in people with CF ages 2 years and older 
with 2 copies of the F508del mutation. Orkambi is the only FDA approved CFTR modulator 
indicated for patients with CF aged 1 year and older who are homozygous for the F508del CFTR 
mutation. This recent label expansion is supported by results from a phase 3, two-part, open label 
trial of Orkambi that enrolled children aged 1 to less than 2 years of age, at screening, who were 
homozygous for the F508del mutation referred to as Trial 7 in the USPI. The full results from 
this study were published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine and 
demonstrate the safety, tolerability and pharmacodynamics of Orkambi in this young population. 
A full list of warnings and precautions for each modulator can be found in the prescribing 
information.  
 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR. LILJEGREN. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Cystic Fibrosis: Inhaled Antibiotics (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation for Cystic Fibrosis: Inhaled Antibiotics. There 
were only 15 claims and 100% non-PDL.  
 
TRISH WHITE MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Cystic Fibrosis: Pancreatic Enzymes (Blue Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles did not give the Magellan presentation for Cystic Fibrosis: Pancreatic Enzymes as 
he did not have any slide for this.  
 
The utilization report was reviewed and stated that they are roughly 94.4% is in line with the 
PDL with 187 claims and 11 are non-PDL. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED A CLASS EFFECT. SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS. 
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
Public Comments for Cystic Fibrosis: Pancreatic Enzymes (Blue Class) 
 
CHARLIE LOVAN, a representative from Medical Affairs, spoke about Creon.  
 
Creon is an FDA approved delayed release pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy. It is  
dedicated for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency which will be referred to 
as EPI for the remainder of this discussion. EPI is a complication of various underlying  
conditions that lead to insufficient quantity of pancreatic enzymes to a level below normal  
digestion. EPI results in symptoms such as bloating, flatulence, abdominal pain, fatty stools, 
 diarrhea and unintentional weight loss. The clinical consequences of EPI include that cycle of  
vitamin deficiencies, malnutrition and impaired quality of life for patients. Creon is available in  


--- Page 4 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 4 of 28 
 
3,000, 6,000, 12,000, 24,000 and 36,000 lipase unit strengths. Creon is not interchangeable with  
any other currently available pancreatic lipase product. Product substitution is not recommended. 
 
There are two studies in adults and children with EPI due to CF and one study in adults with EPI  
due to chronic pancreatitis. The primary efficacy endpoint was the changing coefficient of fat  
absorption from baseline to the end of the double-blind period. Statistically significant 
improvement in the coefficient of that absorption in Creon compared to placebo in all three  
studies. Adverse reactions occurring in at least two CF patients greater than 4-percent receiving  
Creon are vomiting, dizziness and cough. Adverse reactions that occurred in at least one chronic  
pancreatitis patient greater than or equal to 4-percent receiving Creon are hyperglycemia,  
hypoglycemia, abdominal pain, abnormal feces, flatulence, frequent bowel movements and  
nasopharyngitis. 
 
It is used to replace the necessary pancreatic enzymes for proper digestion of  
fats, proteins and carbohydrates needed to maintain adequate nutrition in people with EPI.  
Unlike other enzymes, Creon has been studied in EPI to the various underlying conditions 
 including CF. Conditions and Creon remains the (unintelligible) of choice by prescribers.  
AbbVie disrespectfully requests that Creon be maintained as a preferred treatment option for the  
Alaskan Medicaid patients. Thank you. 
 
4-B. 
MS Agents: CNS Therapeutic Classes  
 
Public Comments for MS Agents: CNS Therapeutic Classes (Blue Class) 
 
LYNDA FINCH, a representative from BioGen provided some information about Vumerity or 
diroximel fumarate. Vumerity was approved in October 2019 for the treatment of relapsing 
forms of MS to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing remitting MS and active 
secondary progressive MS in adults. Vumerity has a distinct chemical structure from Tecfidera 
or dimethyl fumarate, but it is converted to the same active metabolite monomethyl fumarate. 
Because of this bioequivalence we can expect to see the same efficacy and safety as Tecfidera, 
which has now been prescribed in over 500,000 patients representing 15 million patient years 
and has long-term data showing efficacy and safety. 
 
With Vumerity, specifically, that was studied for improved patient reported gastrointestinal 
tolerability versus Tecfidera. There are now over 20,000 patients that have been treated with 
Vumerity. The specific study was called EVOLVE-MS-2.  This was a phase 3 randomized active 
controlled 5-week head-to-head study to evaluate patient reported GI tolerability for Vumerity 
versus Tecfidera in relapsing remitting MS patients. Patients that were treated with Vumerity 
have a statistically improvement in a patient reported outcome measuring GI adverse events 
symptom intensity. What is important is that the adverse events that lead to study 
discontinuation, specifically for GI, were 0.8% for Vumerity versus 4.8% in Tecfidera. We have 
now collected long-term real-world data and that has reinforced that patients are highly adherent 
to Vumerity with a mean PDC of 91.4%. That is consistent with what we saw in our clinical trial 
data which has recently been published. Recently the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence, or NICE, published guidance recommending droxicam fumarate or Vumerity as a 
first line, DMD option for treatment of active relapsing remitting MS. In this disease, it is a 


--- Page 5 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 5 of 28 
 
progressive illness and it is really important to have access to the right medication as early in the 
disease as possible in order to prevent relapse and disability progression. Being able to stay 
adherent and have a tolerable therapy is an important piece of that. The oral therapies do have 
very different mechanisms of actions, tolerability profiles and monitoring requirements as well 
as drug interactions and contraindications. All of those factors are important in selecting the 
appropriate drug.  
 
To conclude, I would like to ask that you consider adding Vumerity to your preferred drug list as 
a first line option for patients with relapsing forms of MS. I would like to thank you for your 
time. 
 
There were no committee questions.   
 
SHIRLEY KWATCH, a representative from Novartis Pharmaceuticals, provided some 
information about Kesimpta. Kesimpta is FDA approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of 
RMS to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing remitting disease and active secondary 
progressive disease in adults. Novartis respectfully requests that Kesimpta be added as preferred 
to the Alaska PDL. Kesimpta slowed disease progression and are the newest, most effective, type 
of agents used in the MS base and there are currently no B-cell therapy options available on your 
PDL in a preferred physician. Studies show that DMPs have been most effective when 
aggressive treatments for highly efficacious therapies have been applied very early in the clinical 
course of MS delaying disease progression and thus reducing societal economic burden of MS. 
 
Despite multiple disease modifying therapies being available for the treatment of MS, there 
remains no standard treatment guideline and providers tend to make trade-offs between efficacy 
and safety when they choose which agent to use. Most recently we have 4 year long term 
efficacy and safety data for Kesimpta in patients with RMS in the phase 3 ASCLEPIOS I/II trial 
and ALITHIOS extension study, which was presented and shared at the American Academy of 
Neurology in April 2022. Kesimpta maintains a similar safety profile as seen in pivotal phase 
three trials up to 4 years of treatment with no new safety risk identified over the treatment period. 
Data shows that continuous treatment with Kesimpta for up to 4 years was associated with fewer 
relapses as well as reduced risk of 3 months and 6 months confirmed disability worsening and 
less lesion activity versus those who switched. In addition to demonstrating efficacy up to 4 
years of continuous treatment with Kesimpta participants who switched from Teriflunomide to 
Kesimpta in the extension phase demonstrated pronounced reduction in relapses in MRI lesions. 
The overall rates of adverse events, serious adverse events and overall rates of serious infections 
were consistent with those observed in the Phase 3 ACLEPIOS I/II trial and did not increase with 
treatment up to 4 years despite the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
So, in summary, Kesimpta has the power, precision and flexibility to help MS patients control 
their disease and offers a highly efficacious self-administered B-cell therapy with a good safety 
profile.  Currently there are no B-cell therapy that is preferred on your PDL. Novartis 
respectfully requests that Kesimpta be added as a preferred agent. Thank you for your time and 
consideration. 
 


--- Page 6 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 6 of 28 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on MS Agents: CNS Therapeutic Classes. MS is a 
complex human autoimmune type inflammatory disease of the CNS.  More than 2.3 million 
people have MS worldwide, 1 million being in the US.  It occurs most commonly in Caucasians 
with rare cases in African Americans and Asian Americans.  Although the etiology is 
predominantly unknown, MS is characterized pathologically by demyelination of subsequent 
axonal degeneration.  The nerve degeneration associated with MS can result in a wide variety of 
symptoms, including sensory disturbances in the limbs, optic nerve dysfunction, ataxia, fatigue 
and bladder, bowel and sexual dysfunction.  Severe cases may result in partial or complex or 
complete paralysis.  While cognitive impairment occurs in approximately 50% of people with 
MS, only 10% experienced serious intellectual deterioration.  It can be categorized as either 
relapsing remitting, which is observed in about 85% to 90% of patients or primary progressive.  
Relapses or attacks typically present sub acutely with symptoms developing over hours to 
several days, persists for several days to weeks and then gradually dissipating. 
 
The clinical courses fall into one of the following categories with the potential to progress from 
less severe to more severe.  The first being clinical isolated syndrome, which the persons have 
the first episode of neurologic symptoms due to inflammation or demyelination last at least 24 
hours, patients with MRI detected brain lesions consistent with MS are at high risk.  Relapsing 
remitting MS clearly defined self-limited attacks of neurologic dysfunction followed by periods 
of remission without disease progression.  Most patients experienced recovery of function that is 
often but not always complete. 
 
Primary Progressive MS is where there is nearly continuous worsening of disease, not 
interrupted by distinct relapses.  Some of those individuals have occasional plateaus and 
temporary minor improvements. Secondary progressive MS is where relapsing remitting disease 
course at onset, followed by progression with or without occasional relapses, minor remissions 
and plateaus, and most patients eventually convert to progressive MS. 
 
In December 2021, FDA approved a new formulation of glatiramer, a single sign one phosphate 
receptor modulator indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS to include clinically 
isolated syndrome, relapsing remitting disease and active secondary progressive disease in 
pediatric patients greater than or equal to 10 years old and weighs greater than or equal to 40 kg. 
Glatiramer was updated in August 2022. FDA is warning that auto-injector devices that are 
optional for use with glatiramer acetate injection may not be compatible for use across FDA 
approved glatiramer acetate injection drug products and has resulted in missed and partial doses. 
There are currently 3 FDA approved glatiramer acetate injection drug products on the market, all 
available in a single dose pre-filled syringe with an attached needle for sub-q administration. 
Patients may administer the dose using only the syringe or by inserting the syringe into an auto-
injection. The auto-injectors are reusable and available by prescription separately. The FDA has 
requested that drug product manufacturers update their labeling to instruct users to confirm the 
auto-injector is compatible before using it to inject glatiramer acetate. 
 
The utilization showed that roughly 32% was in line with PDL. 
 


--- Page 7 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 7 of 28 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION WAS PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
 
 
4-C. 
ADHD: Stimulants and Related Agents  
 
ADHD: Stimulants and Related Agents (Blue Class) 
 
JULIA OVERMAN, a representative from Corium, provided information about two separate 
treatments. The first treatment is for ADHD. 
 
First testimony was on Azstarys for ADHD. The first area of focus was to present the unique 
characteristics. It is a central nervous system stimulant that has been approved for the treatment 
of ADHD in patients 6 years of age and older, including adults. It is a once daily treatment that is 
available in 3 dose strengths equivalent to 20, 30 and 40 mg of total dexmethylphenidate. Each 
capsule contains 2 active ingredients. First, 30% of the capsule is composed of immediate release 
dexmethylphenidate and 70% is serdexmethylphenidate which is a pro drug of methylphenidate 
and is the first and only methylphenidate pro drug and is only the second pro drug in the ADHD 
space. This coformulation of these two molecules is designed to provide both an early onset of 
action as well as an extended duration. Serdexmethylphenidate, which is the pro drug, is a new 
molecular entity and is classified as a schedule 4 controlled substance. Azstarys, however, is a 
schedule 2 controlled substance because it does contain 30% of that immediate release 
dexmethylphenidate which is a schedule 2 molecule. 
 
She next spoke about the duration of action of Azstarys. It has a unique coformulation that is 
designed to provide both early onset within 30 minutes and also extended duration of action up 
to 13 hours. In the clinical trials it demonstrated significant improvement in attention and 
behavior of children ages 6-12 years of age. 
 
Safety information was also shared. It has demonstrated a safety profile that is consistent to that 
observed for other methylphenidate products. There is no notable safety signal identified. The 
most common adverse events during the phase 3 study were upper respiratory tract infection, 
headache and abdominal pain. There were no adverse events that were considered serious. Refer 
to the package insert for full information. 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on stimulants and related agents. The most 
common use of stimulants is for the treatment of ADHD for which they are considered first line 
therapy.  ADHD, which has been diagnosed in approximately 15% of children 4 to 17 years of 
age and 4% of adults, is a chronic condition with core symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, 
and difficulty controlling behavior.  It may also be accompanied by internalized disorders such 
as sadness, anxiety, as well as aggressive or/and oppositional disorder.  And then three main 
types are primary hyperactive, primary inattentive and mixed. 
 


--- Page 8 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 8 of 28 
 
In 2020, the medical letter suggest that school aged children, adolescents and adults begin with 
an oral stimulant, noting that none of the agents have been shown to be more effective than 
another.  However, some patients may respond better to amphetamines than to methylphenidate 
and vice versa.  They advise that use of long-acting formulations which generally contain both 
immediate and extended-release components has become standard clinical practice, and the 
addition of short acting stimulant may improve symptom control early in the morning or to 
prolong the duration of action in the afternoon. Alpha-2 agonist, clonidine, guanfacine and the 
selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, atomoxetine can reduce ADHD symptoms.  These 
agents are considered less effective than stimulants.  And the use of pitolisant and solriamfetol 
were not addressed by the medical letter. 
 
November 2021 the FDA approved a new extended-release tablet formulation of amphetamine 
for the treatment of ADHD in patients greater than or equal to 6 years of age. The warnings 
include black box warnings. CNS stimulants have a high potential for abuse and dependance, 
blood pressure and heart rate increases, moderate blood pressure and pulse. Consider benefits 
and risks before use in patients who blood pressure increases may be problematic. Psychiatric 
adverse events; may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history or 
exacerbation of symptoms in patients with preexisting psychosis. Evaluate for bipolar disorder 
prior to use. Pregnancy may cause fetal harm. Dosage recommended to start at 2.5 mg or 5 mg 
once daily in the morning. Dosage may be increased in increments of 2.5 mg to 10 mg per day 
every 4-7 days up to a maximum daily dose of 20 mg. Oral suspension can be substituted with 
tablets on a mg per mg basis. Availability of suspension containing 2.5 mg of phetamine based 
equivalence per ml and extended-release tablets 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 and 20. 
 
March 2022 the FDA has approved a new transdermal system formulation of 
dextroamphetamine, Xelstrym. The treatment indication of ADHD in adults and pediatric 
patients 6 years and older. Similar black box warnings though this also carries the warning of 
renal impairment. Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment for ESRV. 
Pediatric patients 6-17 years recommended starting dose is 4.5 mg per 9 hours. Titrate the dosage 
in weekly increments of 4.5 mg up to the maximum recommended dose of 18 mg per 9 hours. 
Recommended starting dose for adults is 9 mg per 9 hours with the maximum recommended 
dose of 18 mg per 9 hours. Apply 1 transdermal system 2 hours before the effect is needed and 
remove within 9 hours. Availability if 4.5 mg, 9 mg, 13.5 mg and 18 mg patches. 
 
In April 2022 the FDA approved the expanded indication of viloxazine for use in adults with 
ADHD. This was previously approved for pediatric patients greater than or equal to 6 years of 
age. The indication is updated per that change. The dosage for adults is recommended starting at 
200 mg once daily titrate in increments of 200 mg weekly up to the maximum recommendation 
of 600 mg once daily. 
 
In June 2022 the FDA approved methylphenidate ER tablets via 505b2 for the treatment of 
ADHD in pediatric patients greater than or equal to 6 years of age and adults who are less than or 
equal to 65 years of age. Treatment of ADHD in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age is 
the indication. Black box warning is that CNS stimulants have high potential of abuse and 
dependance. Blood pressure and heart rate increases. Assess blood pressure and heart rate prior 
to initiating treatment and following increases in dosage and periodically while on therapy. Long 


--- Page 9 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 9 of 28 
 
term suppression of growth. Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric 
patients. GI obstruction. Avoid use with preexisting GI narrowing. Pediatric patients 6-17 years 
should have a starting dose of 18 mg once daily. Dosage may be increased by 18 mg once per 
day at weekly intervals. Maximum dosage for pediatric patients 6-12 years is 54 mg once daily. 
Max dose for patients 13-17 is 72 mg once daily. Adults starting dose is 18 mg or 36 mg once 
daily. The dose may be increased by 18 mg once daily at weekly intervals. Maximum dose is 72 
mg once daily. Availability is 18 mg, 27 mg, 36, 45, 54, 63 and 72 mg extended-release tablets. 
 
We have the utilization where roughly 98% is in line with the PDL.   
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-D. 
Insomnia: Sedative Hypnotics 
 
Insomnia: Sedative Hypnotics (Blue Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Insomnia: Sedative Hypnotics. In terms of 
sedative hypnotics, insomnia is a complex symptom that comprises difficulties falling asleep, 
staying asleep or non-refreshing sleep-in combination with daytime dysfunction or distress.  The 
symptom complex can be independent disorder such as primary insomnia, or the result of 
another condition which is defined as secondary insomnia.  It can be commonly divided into 
three types based on duration.  There's transient insomnia, which lasts up to one week and is 
often referred to as adjustment sleep disorder because it is caused most often by an acute 
situational stress such as a test or a deadline.  It is often recurrent with the same or similar 
stresses.  The second is short term insomnia, by definition, lasts one to six months and is usually 
associated with more persistent stressful situations such as death or an illness, or environmental 
factors such as noise.  And lastly, chronic insomnia which is lasting more than six months with a 
diagnosis established using ICSD-3 or DSM-5 criteria. 
 
In children, the incidence of insomnia in children ranges from 1% to 6%.  And children with 
neurodevelopmental or psychiatric comorbidities, the incidence is as high as 50% to 75%.  
Insomnia in children may result in irritability, restlessness, lack of concentration, suicide risk and 
poor memory. 
 
Smith-Magenis syndrome is a genetic disorder of deletion 90% or mutation 10% in chromosome 
17, in a section that includes retinoic acid induced one gene.  All cases in literature are viewed as 
spontaneous genetic change, and it affects about 1 in 15,000 to 25,000 individuals in the US.  
The primary characteristics of this condition include mild to moderate cognitive disability, 
speech and motor delays, distinctive facial features, skeletal malformations, sleep disturbances 
and behavioral patterns.  Patients may also exhibit reduced sensitivity to pain, visual and hearing 
abnormalities and a hoarse voice.  Other neurologic and organ dysfunction may also be present, 
and pharmacologic treatments are used to treat various aspects of the disorder.  These include 
medications for sleep disorder including Tasimelteon and melatonin as well as agents for ADHD 
and seizures. 


--- Page 10 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 10 of 28 
 
 
In January 2022 the FDA approved Quviviq, a rexant receptor antagonist. It is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and or 
sleep maintenance. The indication is as stated. CNS depressive effects and daytime impairment. 
It impairs alertness and motor coordination including morning impairment. Risk increases when 
used with other CNS depressants. Patients taking Quviviq caution against next day driving and 
other activities requiring complete mental alertness. Sleep paralysis, hallucinations and cataplexy 
like symptoms may occur with use. Complex sleep behaviors including sleep walking, sleep 
driving and engaging in other activities while not fully awake may occur. Discontinue 
immediately if a complex sleep behavior occurs. Compromised respiratory function. The effect 
on respiratory function should be considered. Recommended dosage is 25 mg to 50 mg once per 
night taken orally within 30 minutes of sleep with at least 7 hours remaining prior to planned 
awakening. It is available in 25 and 50 mg tablets. 
 
There is a discontinuation of Zolpamist in June 2022. It should be available until December 2022 
and there are no available generics. 
 
Roughly about 70.9% of prescriptions were in line with the PDL. 
 
DR. LILJEGREN MOVED THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR.  RYAN. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNAMIMOUSLY. 
 
4-E. 
Epilepsy: Anticonvulsants 
 
Epilepsy: Anticonvulsants (Blue Class) 
 
Public Comments on Epilepsy: Anticonvulsants 
 
DEBBIE SHEPPE, a representative from Neurelis, spoke about Valtoco. Valtoco, an intranasal 
diazepam. She thanked the committee for their recommendation to maintain appropriate access 
to Valtoco for people with epilepsy in the state of Alaska.  
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Epilepsy: Anticonvulsants.  Epilepsy is one of 
the most common disorders of the CNS.  It's defined when a person has two or more seizures.  It 
affects approximately 2.2 million Americans with 150,000 new cases each year.  The risk is 
estimated to be 1% from birth to age 20 years and 3% at age 75. 
 
Isolated seizures may also occur during a febrile illness after head trauma or as a result of 
withdrawal from alcohol or sedative hypnotics.  A seizure is traceable to an unstable cell 
membrane or a cluster of cells.  Excessive excitability spreads either locally which is partial 
seizure or widely generalized seizure.  Partial seizures begin in one hemisphere of the brain and 
unless they become secondary generalized, they can cause alterations in motor functioning, 
sensory symptoms or automatisms.  If there is no loss of consciousness, they're called simple 
partial.  If there is loss of or impairment of consciousness, they're called complex partial.  About 
70% of patients with epilepsy can be maintained on one drug, non-compliance and evolving 


--- Page 11 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 11 of 28 
 
refractory epilepsy are common reasons for treatment failure.  If control is not achieved with one 
drug, an alternative medication should be attempted before others are added to current therapy. 
 
Just to break down other sub diseases, the disease states in this class, first we have 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.  One of the most severe forms of childhood epilepsy and is one of the 
hardest forms to treat characterized by mental retardation and multiple seizure types, patients 
have seizures daily, sometimes experiencing several seizures within a day.  Patients may also 
experience drop attacks, which is defined as a loss of muscle control, causing the patient to fall 
abruptly to the floor.  There's infantile spasm, which primarily consists of sudden bending for the 
body and stiffening of the arms and legs. 
 
West syndrome is characterized by infantile spasms, developmental regression and a specific 
pattern on the EEG called hypsarrhythmia.  The onset is usually in the first year of life, typically 
between 4 and 8 months and usually stops by age 5, but may be replaced by other seizure types.  
Lastly, there's Dravet syndrome.  It is a rare catastrophic form of epilepsy that presents in the 
first year of life and is characterized by frequent prolonged seizures.  Patients may experience 
multiple seizure types during their lifetime.  Infants with Dravet Syndrome often experience 
multiple comorbidities over their lifetime related to the persistent seizure activity, including 
behavioral and developmental delay.  It is associated with 15% to 20% mortality rate, due to 
sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. 
 
The goals of treating epilepsy are to reduce the frequency of seizure occurrence, along with 
providing the best possible quality of life for the patient.  Treatment will depend on the type of 
seizure.  Many different classes of drugs are available to treat the different forms of seizures, and 
some patients will require more than one drug to control their seizures. 
 
In October 2021, FDA approved an expanded indication for oral and IV monotherapy adjunctive 
therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures to include patients greater than or equal to 1 
month of age to less than 4 years of age, previously indicated for partial onset seizures in patients 
greater than 4 years of age. Dosage; pediatric patients age 1 month to less than 17 years of age 
based on body weight and administered orally twice daily. 
 
In November 2021, FDA has approved a new oral solution formulation of topiramate indicated 
as an initial monotherapy for treatment of partial onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic 
seizures in patients greater than or equal to 2 years old or as an adjunctive therapy for treatment 
of partial onset seizures primarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures or seizures associated with 
Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome and in patients greater than or equal to 2 years of age. It can also be 
used as a treatment for migraine in patients greater than or equal to 12 years of age. For the 
Epilepsy indication initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial onset or primary generalized 
tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older adjunctive therapy for the treatment of 
partial onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures or seizures associated with 
Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older. Preventative treatment of 
migraine in patients 12 years of age and older. Warnings of fetal toxicity and use during 
pregnancy can cause cleft lip and/or palate and being small for gestational age. Suicidal behavior 
and ideation. Anti-epileptic drugs increase the risk of suicidal behavior or ideation. 


--- Page 12 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 12 of 28 
 
Oligohydrosis and hyperthermia. Dosage is stratified by indication. See the package insert 
provided. It is available in an oral solution of 25 mg/ml. 
 
In March 2022, the FDA has approved a neuroactive steroid gamma aminobutyric acid, a 
receptor positive modulator, golexanolone, which is indicated for the treatment of seizures 
associated with psycho independent kinase deficiency disorder in patients greater than or equal 
to 2 years of age. The indication is as mentioned. Pregnancy warning as this may cause fetal 
harm. Suicidal behavior and ideation; monitor patients for suicidal behavior and thoughts. 
Administer orally 3 times daily with food. Dosing for patients’ weight 28 kg or less the starting 
dose is 6 mg three times daily. The maximum dose is 21 mg three times daily. For patients 
weighing over 28 kg the starting dose is 150 mg three times daily and the maximum dose is 600 
mg three times daily. Oral suspension is available in 50 mg/ml.  
 
In April 2022, the FDA has approved fenfluramine for the treatment of seizures associated with 
Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome in patients who are greater than or equal to 2 years of age. 
Fenfluramine was already FDA approved for the treatment of seizures associated with Dravet 
syndrome in patients greater than or equal to 2 years of age. The added to the indication for that 
drug. The starting dosage for Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 0.1 mg per kg twice daily which 
should be increased weekly based on tolerability. Patients not on (unintelligible) the 
recommended maintenance dose is 0.35 mg per kg twice daily with the maximum daily dose of 
26 mg. The patients taking concomitant stiripentol plus clobazam the recommended maintenance 
dosage is 0.2 mg per kg twice daily with the maximum dose being 17 mg. 
 
In April 2022, the indication for the treatment of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome in 
patients taking clobazam has been expanded from patients greater than or equal to 2 years of age 
to include patients greater than or equal to 6 months of age and weighing at least 7 kg. It is not 
approved for use as monotherapy. Dosage is 50 mg per kg per day administered by mouth in two 
or three divided doses depending on the age and weight.  
 
In July 2022, the FDA has approved a new formulation of zonisamide oral suspension indicated 
as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial onset seizures in adults and pediatric patients 
greater than or equal to 16 years of age. Warnings are serious hematological events such as 
aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis has been reported with treatment. The availability is 100 mg 
per 5 ml solution. 
 
In August 2022, the FDA approved midazolam as a 10 mg per 0.7 ml autoinjector for the 
treatment of status epilepticus in adults approved as a single 10 mg dose given IM in the mid-
outer (interposing) using the prefilled injector. Black box warning stating that concomitant use of 
benzodiazepines and opiates might result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma and 
death. Should monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation. A second black box 
warning stating that using this medication exposes users to risks of abuse, misuse and addiction 
which can lead to overdose or death. Before prescribing this medication, and throughout 
treatment each patient should be assessed for abuse, misuse and addiction. Final black box 
warning states that abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction may cause an acute withdrawal 
reaction which can be life threatening. Neonatal sedation and withdrawal syndrome is possible if 


--- Page 13 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 13 of 28 
 
this medication is used during pregnancy. Recommended dose is a single 10 mg dose 
administered via IM injection using the prefilled auto injector. The availability is as stated above. 
 
When we look at utilization, you can see about 92.1% is in line with a PDL. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. LILJEGREN. THE MOTION WAS PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-F. 
Schizophrenia/Bi-Polar Disorder: Antipsychotics 
 
Schizophrenia/Bi-Polar Disorder: Antipsychotics (Blue Class) 
 
Public Comments on Schizophrenia/Bi-Polar Disorder: Antipsychotics 
 
KENNETH BERRY, a representative from Alkermes, spoke about Lybalvi, which is a 
combination of atypical antipsychotic olanzapine and the opioid antagonist samidorphan. 
Lybalvi is indicated to the treatment of schizophrenia, or bipolar I, it is contraindicated in 
patients who are using opioids and who are undergoing acute opioid withdrawal.  It has a box 
warning for increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia related psychosis.  In one 
pivotal study, adult patients were randomized to daily Lybalvi, olanzapine or placebo for four 
weeks.  The primary efficacy endpoint was changed from baseline and PANSS score at week 
four, and patients treated with Lybalvi showed statistically significant improvement compared to 
placebo, enhanced total score. 
 
And the second pivotal study, adult patients were randomized to daily Lybalvi or olanzapine for 
24 weeks.  The co-primary endpoint was percentage change, from baseline and body weight and 
a proportion of patients who being 10% or more.  The mean change in body weight from 
baseline was 4.2% for Lybalvi and 6.6% for olanzapine.  In the Lybalvi group, 17.8% of patients 
experienced weight gain that was 10% or more compared with almost 30% in the olanzapine 
group.  Samidorphan is an opioid antagonist and can precipitate opioid withdrawal in patients 
who are dependent on opioids, which can lead to opioid withdrawal syndrome.  Attempts to 
overcome of all these opioid blockades by administering high or repeated doses of exogenous 
opioids could lead to life threatening or fatal opioid intoxication.  Inform patients of the potential 
consequences of trying to overcome the opioid blockade and the serious risks of taking opioids 
concurrently with Lybalvi.   
 
CHARLIE LOVAN, a representative with Janssen AbbVie, brought attention to Braylar though 
he did not have a testimony. He thanked the committee for the current act. 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Schizophrenia/Bi-Polar Disorder: 
Antipsychotics. Schizophrenia is the most common psychotic illness, which affects about 1% of 
population. Between 25% and 50% of schizophrenic patients attempt suicide and 10% succeed.  
Symptoms include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, catatonic behavior, negative 
symptoms, and at least one of these should be delusions, hallucinations, or disorganized speech.  


--- Page 14 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 14 of 28 
 
Again, guidelines for this class are over a year old, so they will not be reviewed but can be found 
in the appendix. 
 
Newer guidelines here by the APA in 2020 states that since schizophrenia is a chronic illness that 
affects all aspects of life. The goals of treatments are to stabilize the patient to return to baseline 
functioning, prevent recurrence of symptoms, and maximize functioning, and quality of life.  
Antipsychotics are the standard drugs used in patients with schizophrenia to achieve these goals.  
They recommend that patients with schizophrenia be treated with an antipsychotic including 
monitoring of both safety and efficacy.  An antipsychotic should be continued in patients whose 
symptoms improve, with the APA suggesting that the same antipsychotic be used.  They 
recommend clozapine specifically be used in patients with treatment resistant schizophrenia and 
in patients with a significant risk of suicide.  They also suggest clozapine for patients with 
aggressive behavior despite other treatments. A long acting injectable is suggested for patients 
who prefer this therapy or for patients with a history of uncertain or poor adherence. 
 
Notably guidelines state that an evidence-based ranking or algorithm approach for antipsychotic 
selection is not practical due to clinical trial heterogeneity and limited comparative trials.  In 
addition, there's no preference for first generation or second-generation antipsychotics, although 
clinically many meaningful distinctions such as tolerability do occur.  Except for clozapine, no 
antipsychotic has demonstrated superior efficacy when compared to other agents in the class.  
And they also state that there is no reliable strategy to predict response.  Thus, initial treatment 
choice is often individualized and includes several patient-specific factors. The guideline also 
details management of adverse events which is an acute dystonia, parkinsonism, akathisia and 
tardive dyskinesia, some of which may warrant a switch to an alternative antipsychotic 
treatment.  
 
Next, we have bipolar disorder.  Lifelong prevalence estimates bipolar disorder ranging from 
0.9% to 2.1% of the population, characterized by episodes of mania, depression or mixed state.  
The criterion used to diagnose bipolar I is the presence of manic episode or mixed feature 
specifiers and three or more other characteristic symptoms. These symptoms include inflated 
self-esteem or grandiosity, decreased need for sleep, more talkative than usual or pressures 
speech, flight of ideas or feelings of racing thoughts, distractibility, increase of directed activity 
or psychomotor agitation and excessive involvement and risky pleasurable activities. This 
guideline is more than a year old and we will not review. It is here for completeness. 
 
In December 2021 the FDA has approved a new indication for lumateperone for the treatment of 
depressive episodes associated with bipolar I or II disorder in adults as monotherapy and as 
adjunctive therapy for lithium or valproate. Lumateperone is already approved for schizophrenia 
in adults. 
 
In May of 2022 the FDA approved two new strengths of Caplyta 10.5 mg and 21 mg capsules. It 
was already approved as 42 mg capsules. The new indication is updated as stated. The 
availability of the 21 mg and 10.5 mg capsules. 
 
In December 2021 the FDA has expanded the indication of brexpiprazole to include treatment of 
schizophrenia in pediatric patients 13 to 17 years old. Previously brexpiprazole was only 


--- Page 15 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 15 of 28 
 
indicated for use in adults. The indication has been updated. Dosage for pediatric patients starts 
at 0.5 mg per day with a recommended dose of 2-4 mg per day with the maximum dose being 4 
mg daily. 
And the last slide for antipsychotics, we have utilization were roughly 92.2% was in line with 
PDL. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
 
4-G. 
MDD: Antidepressants (Green Class); Others Category (Green Class) 
 
MDD: Antidepressants (Green Class)  
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on antidepressants. For antidepressants prevalence 
of 12 month and lifetime, MDD is approximately 21 million American adults or 8.4% of the US 
population.  Women experience depression more often than men.  In addition, the prevalence of 
depression in 2020 was estimated at 4.1 million adolescents.  With appropriate treatment, 70% to 
80% of patients experiencing MDD achieve response.  However, as many as one-half of all 
patients do not experience sufficient symptom improvement with initial treatment.  Among 
patients who remit residual symptoms are common and associated with impaired psychosocial 
functioning and increased relapse rates.  Until recently, known differences among antidepressant 
drugs were generally limited to safety and tolerability issues.  However, over the past handful of 
years, a number of studies have emerged to evaluate possible differences among antidepressant 
classes and their ability to resolve specific symptoms of depression.  Each of the groups of drugs 
in this class has a potential role in the treatment of MDD primarily as a result of their 
heterogeneous spectrums of activity.  As with many psychotropic drugs, patients failing to 
respond to one type of antidepressant may respond to a switch to or augmentation with an 
antidepressant with another mechanism of action. 
 
In terms of treatment resistant depression, it occurs in approximately 20% to 30% of patients 
with MDD.  Although there is no official definition, TRD is often defined as a failure of patients 
to respond after greater than or equal to two or more treatment attempts of adequate dose and 
duration of a single depressive episode.  In 2019, esketamine nasal spray was approved for TRD 
and ketamine has been used off label for several years for this purpose, with some data 
supporting its efficacy.  However, standard dosing and approaches have been limited.  Although 
there are no current guidelines specific to TRD, the 2010 APA guidelines state that if there is an 
adequate response after optimizing the antidepressant dose, for an adequate duration of time, say 
4 to 8 weeks, switching to another antidepressant from the same or different class and 
augmentation with another antidepressant from a different class or non-antidepressant 
medication are recommended subsequent treatment options. 
 
In addition to psychotherapy, other non-pharm treatment options include transcranial magnetic 
stimulation, vagus nerve stimulation and ECT.  And the APA recommends that ECT should be 


--- Page 16 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 16 of 28 
 
considered in patients with MDD that is unresponsive to psychotherapeutic and/or 
pharmacologic treatment. 
 
In February 2022, the FDA approved citalopram 30 mg oral capsules for the treatment of MDD 
in adults. Indication as stated. Black box warning includes increased risk of suicidal thoughts and 
behavior in pediatric and young adult patients taking antidepressants. Closely monitor all 
antidepressant treated patients for clinical worsening and emergency of suicidal thoughts and 
behaviors. Pregnancy in SSRI use. Particularly in pregnancy may increase the risk of persistent 
pulmonary hypertension and symptoms of poor adaption, respiratory distress, temperature and 
stability feeding difficulties, hypotonia, tremor, irritability in the neonate. Avoid use in patients 
with hepatic impairment. Avoid use in elderly patients. Recommended dosage of citalopram 
capsules is 30 mg once daily. Citalopram dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended 
due to the risk of QT prolongation. The availability is 30 mg capsules. 
 
In June of 2022 the indication of postpartum depression has been expanded to include patients 
greater than or equal to 15 years old. Previously it was only approved for use in adults. The 
indication has been updated. 
 
In July of 2022, the FDA approved a new form of venlafaxine. Venlafaxine ER. Approval was 
based on clinical trials of venlafaxine hydrochloride ER capsules. Venlafaxine besylate ER 
tablets are indicated for the treatment of MDD and generalized anxiety disorder in adults. The 
indication for MDD and GAD in adults. Warnings are increased risk of suicidal thoughts and 
behaviors in pediatric and adult patients taking antidepressants. Closely monitor all 
antidepressant treatment patients for clinical worsening and emergency of suicidal thoughts and 
behavior. Black box warning states not approved for pediatric patients. In pregnancy, third 
trimester use may increase the risk of symptoms of poor neonatal adaptation in the neonate. Do 
not initiate treatment with venlafaxine ER tablets, use another venlafaxine ER product for initial 
dosage. Titration and dosages below 112.5 mg once daily. Venlafaxine ER tablets can be 
initiated at 112.5 mg once daily in patients who have received at least 75 mg of another 
venlafaxine ER product for at least 4 days. Maximum recommended dosage is 225 mg once 
daily. ER tablet is 112.5 mg. 
 
dextromethorphan and bupropion. In August 2022, the FDA approved the combination of 
dextromethorphan on competitive methyl-d-aspartate in receptor antagonists and sigma1 receptor 
agonist and bupropion on amino ketone and CIP 452d6 inhibitor indicated for the treatment of 
MDD in adults. The indication is as stated. Black box warning includes the increased risk of 
suicidal thoughts and behavior in pediatric and young adults’ patients taking antidepressants. 
Closely monitor all antidepressant treated patients for clinical worsening and emergency of 
suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Embryo field toxicity may cause fetal harm. Advise pregnant 
females of the potential risk to the fetus. Discontinue treatment in pregnancy females and use 
alternative treatments for females who are planning to become pregnant. Severe renal 
impairment; not recommended. Severe hepatic impairment; not recommended. Starting dose is 1 
tablet once daily in the morning. After three doses increase the maximum recommended dosage 
of 1 tablet twice daily separated by at least 8 hours. Do not exceed 2 doses in the same day. The 
availability is 45 mg to 105 mg dextroamphetamine bupropion tablets. 
 


--- Page 17 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 17 of 28 
 
There was a discontinuation of Doxepin in July 2022. A business decision was made to 
discontinue manufacturing Doxepin 10 mg per ml oral solution.  
 
For antidepressants, both the utilization of motions are broken down by SSRIs and others.  For 
SSRIs, roughly 96% are in line with the PDL. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT. SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. 
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
MDD: Others Category (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Antidepressants Others. The current utilization 
is roughly 91.8% in line with PDL. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUDIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. BEGAY-BRUNO. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-H. 
Dementia: Alzheimer’s Agents 
 
Dementia: Alzheimer’s Agents (Red Class)  
 
Public Comments for Dementia: Alzheimer’s Agents (Red Class) 
 
JULIA OVERMAN, a representative from Corium spoke about Adlarity.  It is indicated for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The first area she focused on is the unique characteristics of 
Adlarity. It is a once weekly transdermal system. It is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
mild, moderate and severe Alzheimer’s disease. Adlarity contains donepezil which was approved 
in 1996 for the treatment of Alzheimer’s dementia. It has demonstrated efficacy in patients with 
mild, moderate and severe disease. Adlarity is available in two dosage options that are equivalent 
to 5 mg per day and 10 mg per day. It is designed to provide a reduction in the peaks and troughs 
of the blood levels that occur with oral medications such as oral donepezil. It is also designed to 
reduce the adverse events of the GI system as well as the central nervous system that can occur 
with oral donepezil. It also bypasses the swallowing difficulty that can occur with Alzheimer’s 
disease also known as dysphasia. There is also a reduction in the caregiver burden with a once 
weekly administration versus daily administration of oral donepezil. 
 
Next, she spoke about the pharmacokinetic profile of Adlarity. In our study when the patches 
were applied once weekly, they were found to be bioequivalent to oral Aricept that was 
administered once daily for 35 days. Adlarity retained its skin adhesion during the one-week 
wear period. Showering did not affect adhesion or the pharmacokinetic parameters. 
 
Finally, she spoke about safety information.  Safety assessments revealed that except for 
abdominal pain patients in the Adlarity group had fewer GI disorders than those in the oral 
group. The most common GI adverse events were constipation, nausea, diarrhea and abdominal 
pain. There were also fewer instances of central nervous system side effects such as dizziness 


--- Page 18 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 18 of 28 
 
and there were no instances of somnolence with Adlarity use. Adlarity showed good skin 
tolerability and no patient discontinued early from the study due to skin irritation. No patches 
were removed due to unacceptable skin irritation. Application site reaction included application 
site dryness, dermatitis and irritation. For full prescribing information refer to the package insert. 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Dementia: Alzheimer’s Agents.   Dementia, 
characterized by irreversible loss or decline in memory and other cognitive abilities. It affects 
approximately 6.2 million Americans aged 65 years and older.  It is the most common type of 
dementia accounting for 60% to 80% in the elderly, and it is the sixth leading cause of death in 
the US.  Other types of dementia include vascular dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, mixed 
dementia and frontotemporal dementia.  Dementia may also be associated with HIV, normal 
pressure hydrocephalus, Huntington's, Korsakoff, MS, Parkinson's, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease.  Many other conditions can cause delirium symptoms such as thyroid disorder and 
vitamin deficiencies but are reversible once the underlying cause is addressed. 
 
Alzheimer’s disease, AD, is characterized by progressive cognitive decline associated with the 
impairment of activities of daily living and behavioral disturbances. Patients with AD eventually 
lose all cognitive, analytical and physical functioning. 10 warning signs of AD include memory 
loss that disrupts daily life, challenges in planning or solving problems, difficulty completing 
familiar tasks, confusion with time or place, trouble understanding visual images and spatial 
relationships, new difficulties with speaking or writing, misplacement of items or losing the 
ability to repeat steps, decreased or poor judgement, withdrawal from work or social activities 
and mood or personality changes. In addition, there are three stages of AD over the course of 
disease characterized by symptom severity, rate of disease progression and level of necessary 
support care for activities of daily living. 
 
In March of 2022, FDA approved Adlarity. It is indicated for the treatment of mild, moderate 
and severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Indication as stated. Limitation on pregnancy 
based on animal data may cause fetal harm. Application site reactions have occurred. Allergic 
contact dermatitis should be suspended if application site reactions spread beyond the site of the 
transdermal system. If there is evidence of more intense local reaction and/or if symptoms do not 
significantly improve within 48 hours after the system is removed. Recommended starting dose 
is 5 mg per day. After 4-6 weeks the dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended 
dose of 10 mg per day. If the patient has been on 5 mg per day of an oral treatment for 4-6 weeks 
or 10 mg per day the recommended starting dose is 10 mg per day. It is available in both 5 mg 
and 10 mg per day transdermal systems. 
 
On the next slide here, you'll see roughly 92.6% of the utilization in line with PDL. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED FOR THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. 
LILJEGREN. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-I. 
NSAIDs 
 
NSAIDs: (Green Class) 
 


--- Page 19 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 19 of 28 
 
Ryan Ruggles moved directly to utilization for NSAIDS due to it being a green class.  In terms 
of utilization, roughly 99.1% of the utilization is in line with PDL. 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THE CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE TOPICAL 
PREPARATION, WHICH WAS SECONDED BY DR. LILJEGREN. THE MOTION 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
 
4-J. 
Opioid Analgesics: Short Acting (Green Class); Long Acting (Green Class) 
 
Opioid Analgesics: Short Acting (Green Class)  
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Opioid Analgesics: Short Acting. Chronic pain 
is generally defined as pain lasting three -- greater than three months or past the time required for 
normal tissue healing.  It has various etiologies including injury, inflammation, and underlying 
medical conditions.  Approximately 11.2% of adults report daily pain which is greatly 
misunderstood.  Historically, data has suggested that pain may be undertreated, but newer 
estimates imply that opioid treatments for pain may be over utilized.  An estimated 20% of 
patients presenting to outpatient providers with non-cancer pain or pain-related diagnosis 
whether acute or chronic receive an opioid prescription. 
 
Likewise, per capita opioid prescription has increased by 7.3% from 2007 to 2012 with 
prescribers writing 66.5 opioid prescriptions for every 100 Americans in 2016.  Unfortunately, 
approximately 165,000 people have died from overdoses related to opioid pain medications in 
the US from 1999 to 2014.  Likewise, drug-related deaths have tripled from 1999 to 2015, and 
during 2015 alone, 33,091 people in the US have died from opioid-related overdoses.  The 
overdoses were higher among men being about 13.7% compared to females, which was 7.1%. 
 
Despite this, persistent pain is uncontrolled.  If that is uncontrolled, may have clinical, 
psychological, and social consequences.  Thus, it is critical to weigh the risks and benefits of 
opioid use and reevaluate patients routinely for appropriate dose duration and treatment choice 
including both pharm and nonpharmacologic modalities. For postpartum pain the American 
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends a step wise multimodal approach to 
include the use of standard oral pain medications such as acetaminophen, NSAIDs and opioid for 
post-operative cesarian pain. For vaginal birth a step wise multimodal approach starting with an 
NSAID or acetaminophen escalating if needed, to an opioid if recommended. ACOG states that 
if a coating containing medication is selected during duration of therapy a new warn signs of 
toxicity should be reviewed with the family. If an opioid is required the duration should be 
limited to the shortest course expected to be adequate for managing acute pain. 
 
In October 2021, the FDA approved an expanded indication for morphine sulfate in pediatric 
patients weighing 50 kg or more for acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and 
for which alternative treatments are inadequate.  Previously, it was only indicated for acute pain 
in adults severe enough to require an opioid analgesic for which alternative treatments are 
inadequate.  Because of the risk of addiction abuse and misuse with opioids even at 
recommended dosage reserve treatment for use in patients who need alternative treatments 
options. Black box warnings state serious or life threatening or fatal respiratory depression may 


--- Page 20 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 20 of 28 
 
occur. Monitor closely, especially during initiation or following a dose increase. There is also a 
contraindication for children younger than 12 years of age and in children younger than 18 years 
of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. Avoid use in adolescents 12 to 18 years of 
age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant 
effects of tramadol. Initiate treatment with 2 tablets every 12 hours as needed for pain relief. Do 
not abruptly discontinue in a physically dependent patient. Availability is 56 mg for celecoxib 
and 44 mg for tramadol, both in tablet form.  
 
There is a new generic for fentanyl (interposing) in August 2022. The generic to Fentora was 
approved, the buccal sublingual tablet.  
 
On the next and final slide for this about 45.9% was in line with PDL.  
 
Also, to note, the skew was towards non-PDL due to generics. Ryan Ruggles and Charles 
Semling affirmed this and stated that it would primarily be hydrocodone-acetaminophen tablets 
and oxycodone tablets. 
He also gave a quick disclaimer on the hydrocodone tablets.  The reason it is there is because 
there are two different strengths.  There is the 300 mg of acetaminophen and 325 mg of 
acetaminophen.  The 325 mg actually is preferred, but they are all lumped in together under this 
category, so that number would be much, much higher. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNAIMOUSLY. 
 
Long-Acting Opioids: (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles went directly into utilization on Long-Acting Opioids due to it being a green class. 
 
For utilization 60.5% was in line with PDL. 
 
Dr. Liljegren wanted to know if there was an answer to why there is such a large proportion that 
are non-PDL prescriptions to which Dr. Semling responded that it is because we do not prefer 
methadone or oxycontin as those are a majority of the non-PDLs. There are sufficient 
alternatives for the long-acting. They can also use the medically necessary clause.  
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS OF THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, DR. RYAN SECONDED THAT MOTION. 
 
Dr. Liljegren stated she does not feel that methadone should not be used for chronic pain due to 
it being a dangerous drug.  
 
THE MOTION PASSED BUT WAS NOT UNANIMOUS AS THERE WERE 2 NAYS. 
 
4-K. 
Neuropathic Pain 
 


--- Page 21 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 21 of 28 
 
Neuropathic Pain: (Green Class)  
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan went directly to utilization for Neuropathic Pain as this is a 
green class. 
 
In terms of utilization, roughly 99.1% in line with the PDL. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES. DR. PHILLIPS SECONDED THAT MOTION. THE MOTION WAS 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-L. 
Anti-Migraine Agents 
 
Anti-Migraine Agents: (Red Class) 
 
Public Comments for Anti-Migraine Agents: (Red Class) 
 
TAMMY MARTIN, a representative from Biohaven Medical Affairs, provided some updated 
information about Nurtec ODT, also known as rimegepant which is now the first and only 
migraine medication with a dual indication to both treat and prevent migraine attacks in adults. 
 
Nurtec dissolves within seconds without the need for water. It has a half-life of 11 hours. It also 
has a migraine specific mechanism of action blocking CGRP. After taking a single dose patients 
experience pain relief and were functioning normally within 1 hour. Efficacy was sustained 
through 48 hours without recurrence or redosing. 
 
In a 1-year safety study patients who took rimegepant, as needed, as acute treatment also 
experienced the benefit of a reduction in migraine frequency over time. A 50% reduction by 32 
weeks as well as reduction in the use of other migraine medications like antiemetics and 
analgesics. A recent real-world analysis has shown that among migraine patients with poor 
opioid use upon initiation of Nurtec 40% of the patients discontinued opioid use within 9 
months. In a double-blind randomized placebo control trial for the preventive treatment of 
migraine patients took either rimegepant or placebo every other day for 12 weeks. The most 
common adverse events were nausea in 2.7% and abdominal discomfort in 2.4%. After 12 weeks 
of every other day dosing rimegepant treated patients demonstrated a significant 4-to-3-day 
reduction in monthly migraine days which represents 40% reduction in migraine frequency 
compared to baseline. Importantly, there was a rapid onset of preventive benefit with a 30% 
reduction in migraine days within the first week of treatment. Until now prescribing preventive 
treatment for migraine has necessitated polypharmacy because different drugs have been needed 
to relieve attacks, acute medications, and reduced frequency and severity of attacks preventive 
medications. Most traditional oral preventative treatments, for example the antihypertensives and 
antiepileptics and antidepressants, were developed for indications other than migraine. They 
typically have suboptimal safety and tolerability profiles and adherence is generally poor, less 
than 20% of patients persist on treatment after 12 months. 
 


--- Page 22 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 22 of 28 
 
Nurtec has a convenient oral administration and a short half-life which may be critical for 
patients who become pregnant or experience adverse events that might require rapid cessation of 
drug exposure. Biohaven respectfully asks the committee to consider adding Nurtec ODT as a 
preferred medication. 
 
CHARLIE LOVAN, a representative from AbbVie, spoke about Qulipta for the patients who 
suffer with migraine headaches. Qulipta is a calcitonin gene related peptide receptor antagonist 
indicated for the preventative treatment for episodic migraine in adults. It is available in 10, 30 or 
60 mg once daily. Following oral administration Qulipta is absorbed with a peak plasma 
concentration at approximately 1 to 2 hours and has a half-life of approximately 11 hours. This 
allows for daily preventive dosing as well as fast clearance of the drug in approximately 3 days.  
 
Qulipta was evaluated in a 12-week phase 3 randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study. 
The primary endpoint of change or baseline of mean monthly migraine days across 12 weeks 
compared to placebo was met with all three doses with benefits of Qulipta were evident as early 
as the first full day after administration. All of the key endpoints were met. These doses 
significantly improved function as it relates to social and work-related activities. All three doses 
significantly reduced the mean monthly headache days and the mean monthly acute medication 
use days by approximately 50%. 55-60% of patients experience at least a 50% reduction of 
migraine days across the 12-week treatment period. During weeks 9-12 approximately 61-71% 
of patients experienced a 50% reduction in migraine days. 
 
There is no contraindications, warnings or precautions for Qulipta. The most frequent reported 
adverse events during the phase 3 trial were constipation, nausea and upper respiratory tract 
infections. None of the adverse events were considered serious and all reported cases of nausea 
and most reported cases of constipation were mild or moderate in severity. The discontinuation 
rate due to nausea, constipation or fatigue were 0.5%.  
 
AbbVie would like to respectfully request that Qulipta be added to the PDL. 
 
ROCHELLE YANG, a representative from Teva, provided some updates on Ajovy. She 
reminded that Ajovy is a self-injectable subcutaneous CGRP inhibitor and is indicated for the 
prevention of migraine. It was evaluated in phase 3 randomized controlled trials HALO and 
FOCUS in episodic and chronic migraine patients. It is the only self-injectable CGRP that is 
available in both monthly and quarterly dosing. 
 
Earlier this year there were two real-world evidence studies that were published. The first study 
was a claims database review of 987 patients who were prescribed Ajovy and found a high rate 
of patient adherence with a mean proportion of days covered or PDC or 86.1% and persistence 
was found to be more than 75% after 6 months. In the subgroup of patients who had comorbid 
depression or anxiety at baseline, which are two common comorbidities associated with 
migraine, there were reductions seen in prescribed antidepressant and anti-anxiolytic medication 
use respectively. The second study was a retrospective chart study of just over 1,000 migraine 
patients who had initiated Ajovy and found improvements in clinical outcomes such as the 
monthly migraine days, monthly headache days, migraine disability assessment questionnaire 
and headache impact test scores after 6 months. These outcomes were seen in patients regardless 


--- Page 23 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 23 of 28 
 
of whether they were on the monthly or the quarterly dosing. This adds to the large body of 
evidence supporting the use of Ajovy across a broad population of patients with migraine and it 
is being reviewed today. The committee is asked to add Ajovy to the Alaska State PDL. 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on anti-migraines. In terms of migraine headaches, 
it accounts for about 10% to 20% of all headaches in adults and affects over 37 million men, 
women and children in US.  It is one of the most common complaints by patients when 
presenting to a physician, 64% of physician-diagnosed patients who experienced migraines and 
41% of undiagnosed migraine sufferers report severe impairment or the need for bedrest due to 
their migraine symptoms.  In addition, 20.7% of women, 9.7% of men experience migraines and 
epidemiologic profile that has remained stable over the many years.  Approximately, 85% of 
patients with migraine headaches suffer less than three to four attacks per month, and the 
medium frequency of migraine attacks among migraine sufferers is 1.5 per month. 
 
Migraine headaches must be differentiated from tension type headaches.  Key criteria for the 
diagnosis of migraine headaches include an episodic headache lasting from 4 to 72 hours with at 
least two of the following symptoms, unilateral pain, throbbing, aggravated by routine physical 
activity, pain of moderate to severe intensity.  And during the headache, at least one of the 
following is present; nausea, vomiting, photophobia or phonophobia. 
 
A cluster headache is a severe primary headache disorder characterized by extreme pain on one 
side of the head and autonomic symptoms, such as nasal congestion and lacrimation.  They can 
persist for weeks to months with a daily or more frequent attacks of 15 to 180 minutes in 
duration.  Yet, estimated lifetime prevalence is more than 1 in 1000 and can either be episodic or 
chronic in nature with episodic being the predominant form.  Individuals with episodic periods of 
attack followed by periods of remission whereas individuals with chronic have minimal to no 
periods of remission between headache attacks. 
 
In September 2021, the FDA approved Trudhesa, which is a dihydroergotamine mesylate 4 
mg/mL nasal spray, approved for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults.  
The limitation for this, it is not indicated for preventative treatment of migraines or for the 
management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine. There is a black box warning where severe, 
serious and/or life-threatening peripheral ischemia has been associated with co-administration 
with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, because the inhibitors elevate the serum levels of this 
medication, the risk of vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities 
is increased.  Hence, concomitant use of this medication is strong, so 3A4 inhibitors is 
contraindicated.  There is a warning for pregnancy where based on animal data, it may cause 
fetal harm.  Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment, severe renal impairment or 
end stage renal disease. Dose adjustment of 10 mg once daily is required in those patients. 
 
For dosage, recommended dose is 1.45 mg, which is administered as one-metered spray of 0.725 
mg into each nostril.  The dose may be repeated if needed a minimum of one hour after the first 
dose and one should not use more than two doses within 24 hours or three doses in seven days.  
It is available as a nasal spray. 
 


--- Page 24 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 24 of 28 
 
In October 2021, FDA approved Qulipta which is a CGRP antagonist indicated for the 
preventative treatment of episodic migraines in adults.  In terms of warnings, based on animal 
data, it may cause fetal harm and to avoid in patients with severe hepatic impairment.  The 
dosage is 10, 30 and 60 mg taken orally once daily with or without food, and there is a dose 
adjustment for patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease.  And again, it is 
available in tablet formulation in 10, 30 and 60 mg.  Lastly, there was a new generic in October 
2021 for zolmitriptan.  FDA approved the first generic of AstraZeneca Zomig nasal spray from 
Padagis, Israel. 
 
For triptans, approximately 96.6% was in line with the PDL. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS BE CONSIDERD A CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE 
AT LEAST ONE NON-ORAL PREPARATION, AT LEAST ONE DRG FOR ACUTE 
TREATMENT AND A DRUG FOR PROPHYLACTIC TREATENT. DR. PHILLIPS 
SECONDED THAT. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT THE ANTI-MIGRAINE AGENTS BE CONSIDERED AS 
A THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVE FOR ACUTE AND PROPHYLACTIC 
TREATMENT. DR. LILJEGREN SECONDED THAT. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
The group took a 10-minute bio break. 
 
4-M. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants 
 
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Blue Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Skeletal Muscle Relaxants. Skeletal muscle 
relaxants, spasticity, a condition in which muscles are continuously contracted causing stiffness 
or tightness which may interfere with movement and speech. It is usually caused by damage to a 
portion of the brain or spinal cord that controls voluntary movement. It is a major health concern 
and can be associated with a number of disease entities such as spinal cord injury, MS, TBI, 
cerebral palsy and stroke. Symptoms may include hypertonicity, clonus, exaggerated deep 
tendon reflexes, muscle spasms, scissoring and fixed joints. The degree of specificity varies from 
mild muscle stiffness to severe painful and uncontrollable muscle spasms. Specificity may cause 
decreased range of motion, contractures, sleep disorders and impaired ambulation. Skeletal and 
muscle relaxants are FDA approved to treat two different types of conditions. Muscular pain or 
spasms from peripheral and musculoskeletal conditions or specificity from upper motor neuron 
syndromes. Both conditions affect patients’ ability and affect independence and activities of 
daily living and work. 
 
December 2021, the FDA approved a new oral granule formulation of baclofen. Baclofen is 
indicated for the treatment of specificity resulting from MS, particularly, for the relief of flexor 
spasms and concomitant pain, clonus and muscular rigidity and may also be of some value in 
patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases. The indication is for the 
treatment of specificity resulting from MS, particularly for the relief of flexor spasm and 


--- Page 25 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 25 of 28 
 
concomitant pain, clonus and muscular rigidity. It may also be of some value in patients with 
spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases. Limitations of use are that it is not indicated 
for the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders. Because baclofen 
is excreted unchanged through the kidneys it may be necessary to reduce dosage in patients with 
impaired renal function. Pregnancy, based on animal data, may cause fetal harm. Initiate with a 
low dosage, preferably in divided doses, administered orally and increase gradually based on 
clinical response and tolerability. The maximum oral dosage is 80 mg daily, which would be 20 
mg four times a day. The availability is oral granules 5, 10, 20 mg baclofen and comes in a 
packet. 
 
February 2022, the FDA approved a new formulation of baclofen. Fleqsuvy is an oral suspension 
for the treatment of spasticity resulting from MS, particularly, for the relief of flexor spasms and 
concomitant pain, clonus and muscular rigidity and may also be of some value in patients with 
spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases. Indication as per stated. It is not indicated for 
the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders. Renal and pregnancy 
indications are the same as the prior slide. Initiate with a low dosage, preferably in divided doses 
with the maximum being 20 mg 4 times a day. Oral suspension is 25 mg per 5 ml. 
 
There was a recall on orphenadrine citrate in March 2022. It was a voluntary recall that recalled 
13 lots of orphenadrine citrate 100 mg ER tablets to the consumer level. It was due to the 
presence of nitrosamine impurity above the acceptable daily level.  
 
The utilization where roughly 97.8% is in line with PDL. 
 
DR. LILJEGREN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS ARE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES EXCLUDING CARISOPRODOL FROM THE PDL. TRISH WHITE 
SECONDED THE MOTION. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-N. 
Restless Legs Syndrome 
 
Restless Legs Syndrome: (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Restless Legs Syndrome.  Given that this is a 
green class they went right into utilization which was found to be 100% non-PDL. This is due to 
this class being combined into other classes. If only RLS drugs that were on the PDL the 
utilization would be 93.2% on PDL at 6 hundred and (interposing) prescriptions. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS TO CLASS EFFECT, DR. LILJEGREN SECONDED 
THAT. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-O. 
Smoking Cessation 
 
Smoking Cessation: (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Smoking Cessation. Given that this is a green 
class they went directly to utilization which 96.9% was in line with the PDL. 


--- Page 26 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 26 of 28 
 
 
DR. LILJEGREN MOTIONED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, WHICH WAS SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-
ATCHISON. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-P. Opioids: Opioid Dependence (Green Class); Reversal Agents (Blue Class) 
 
Opioid Dependence: (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Opioid Dependence. Given this is a green class 
they went directly to utilization. He stated that utilization where roughly 90.9% is in line with the 
PDL.  
 
DR. LILJEGREN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS ARE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE LONG-ACTING INJECTABLE 
PRODUCT. DR. PHILLIPS SECONDED THAT MOTION. THE MOTION WAS 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Reversal Agents: (Blue Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on Reversal Agents. There is an estimated 37.3 
million Americans aged 12 years and older who were current in the past month illicit drug users.  
There were approximately 9.4 million people aged 12 years or older in the US who misused 
opioids in the past year, approximately 40.3 million aged 12 years or older in 2020 were 
considered to have a substance use disorder including 18.4 million with an alcohol use disorder, 
2.7 million with an illicit drug use disorder and 1.6 million had an opioid use disorder. 
 
US Preventive Task Force in 2020 issued a final recommendation statement on screening for 
unhealthy drug use.  For adults, they recommend screening implemented when services for 
accurate diagnosis, effective treatment and appropriate care can be offered or referred.  For 
adolescents, the current evidence is insufficient to determine the benefits and harms of screening 
for unhealthy drug use. 
 
In October 2021, FDA approved a new formulation of naloxone an opioid antagonist indicated in 
adult and pediatric patients for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose 
as manifested by respiratory and/or CMS depression. It is intended for immediate administration 
as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be present and is not a substitute for 
emergency medical care. There is a risk of recurrent respiratory and CNS depression. Due to the 
duration of action naloxone relative to the opioid keep the patient under continued surveillance 
and administer repeat doses of naloxone using a new nasal spray with each dose necessary while 
awaiting emergency medical assistance. There is risk of limited efficacy with partial agonists or 
mixed agonist antagonist reversal of respiratory depression caused by partial agonist or mixed 
agonist antagonist such as buprenorphine and pentazocine may be incomplete. Dosage; seek 
emergency medical care immediately after use. Administer to adult or pediatric patients into the 
anterior lateral aspect of the thigh through clothing if necessary. Keep the patient under 
continued surveillance until emergency personnel arrive and administer repeated doses as 


--- Page 27 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 27 of 28 
 
necessary. Availability is injection 5 mg per 0.5 ml naloxone solution in a single dose prefilled 
syringe. 
 
In October 2021, FDA approved a naloxone injection, 10 mg by use of military personnel and 
chemical incident responder for emergency treatment of patients greater than or equal to 12 years 
of age where use of high potency opioids, such as fentanyl analogs as a chemical weapon is 
suspected and for temporary prophylaxis of respiratory and/or CNS depression in military 
personnel and chemical incident responders entering an area contaminated with high potency 
opioids such as fentanyl analogs. 
 
Moving onward to the utilization 100% in line with PDL 
 
Dr. Semling stated that the 100% utilization may be a little misleading because when looking at 
the utilization sheets it only had Narcan nasal spray on there. On the current PDL there are 
multiple alternatives. 
 
DR. LILJEGREN MOTIONED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS ARE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES. DR. RYAN SECOND THAT MOTION. THE 
MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-Q. 
RSV Monoclonal Antibodies: (Green Class) 
 
Ryan Ruggles gave the Magellan presentation on RSV Monoclonal Antibodies. Given that this is 
a green class he moved directly to utilization stating that there was none. 
 
Dr. Semling stated that was not true and that the slide should be relook at the slide. Synagis, for 
RSV, is what they looked at and it is 100 preferred and utilization is 100%. With the uptick in 
RSV this year around the country and Alaska the RSV team, including himself, met and opened 
up the RSV Synagis season early due to the rise in case numbers. Utilization is 100%. 
 
After some discussion it was found that the data was pulled prior to Synagis season. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE CLASS EFFECT. DR. LILJEGREN SECONED THAT 
MOTION. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
5. 
Review Minutes from the September meeting 
 
There were no changes to the meeting minutes.  
 
DR. RYAN MOVED TO APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES OF ***. SECONDED 
BY DR. PHILLIPS. THE MOTION WAS PASSED BY ALL MEMBERS. 
6.  
End of Public Meeting 
7. 
Comments From Committee Members 
8. 
Adjourn 
 


--- Page 28 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
November 18, 2022 
Page 28 of 28 
 
DR. SEMLING MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING. THE NEXT MEETING WAS 
SCHEDULE FOR JANUARY 20, 2023. WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE MEETING WAS 
ADJOURNED.\n