STATE: Alaska\nURL: https://health.alaska.gov/media/kmqowark/pnt_minutes_20230120.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://health.alaska.gov/en/education/pdl-preferred-drug-list/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Alaska Medicaid Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
January 20,2023 
 
 
 
Committee Members Present:                                                    Committee Members Absent: 
John Riley, PA, Acting Chairman                                                 Matthew Begay-Bruno, PharmD 
Robert Carlson, MD  
 
 
 
 
       Claudia Phillips, MD 
Sarah Doran-Atchison, PharmD 
Charles Ryan, MD 
Trisha White, R.Ph. 
Casey Gokey, MD 
Valerie Bixler, PharmD 
 
Others Present: 
Umang Patel, PharmD 
Ryan Ruggles, PharmD 
Charles Semling PharmD, DHSS 
Matthew Parrott PharmD, DHSS 
Victoria Romo-LeTourneau, PharmD, Pfizer 
Shirley Quach, Novartis 
Erin Nowak, AbbVie 
Andrew Delgado, Bristol Myers Squibb 
Valerie Ng, LEO Pharma 
 
1.  
Call to Order – Chair 
 
Mr. Riley called the meeting to order. 
 
2.  
Roll Call 
 
The roll call was taken, and a quorum was present. 
 
3.  
Public Comments - Local Public/Health Practitioners 
 
None. 
 
4.  
Class Review, Discussion & Vote 
 
4-A. 
Respiratory: COPD Agents (Green); Inhaled Glucocorticoids (Blue); Pancreatic 
Enzymes (Green) 


--- Page 2 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 2 of 18 
 
 
Respiratory: COPD agents (Green)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for COPD agents. Being that this is a green class 
there are no changes. Therefore, Umang went right into the utilization. 99.5% is in line with the 
PDL. 
 
Previous years motion, Mr. Greear moved the drug in the class were therapeutic alternatives 
which was seconded by Dr. Ryan. It was passed unanimously. 
 
Definition was given to differentiate therapeutic alternatives versus class effect for those that are 
new to the committee.  
 
DR. CARLSON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY MRS. WHITE. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Inhaled Glucocorticoids (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for Respiratory: Inhaled Glucocorticoids. The 
single entity and combination were combined due to the background and guidelines being one in 
the same. The prevalence of asthma in the United States continues to rise. More than 25 million 
Americans have asthma and over 4 million are children. The national asthma, education and 
prevention program has defined asthma as the chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways in 
which many cells and cellular elements play a role. In susceptible individuals’ inflammation may 
cause recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness and coughing. These 
episodes are usually associated with airflow obstruction that is often reversible either 
spontaneously or with treatment. The inflammation also causes an increase in bronchial 
hyperresponsiveness to a variety of stimuli. 
 
Studies have demonstrated that the efficacy of inhaled corticosteroids in improving lung 
function, reducing symptoms, reducing frequency and severity of exacerbations and improving 
quality of life of patients with asthma. 
 
In 2007 the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute states that inhaled corticosteroids are 
currently the most effective anti-inflammatory medication for the treatment of persistent asthma. 
 
The 2019 GINA full report advises that all patients with asthma should receive inhaled 
corticosteroids containing controller treatment to reduce the risk of serious exacerbation and to 
control symptoms. Updated GINA guidelines offer controlled based management plan to adjust 
to treatment in a continuous cycle of assessment, treatment and review of the patient’s response 
as it related to symptom, control, future risk of exacerbations and side effects. 
 
Equally important in this process is identifying the patients’ own goals regarding their asthma 
management to ensure improved outcomes. Patients whose asthma is not adequately controlled 
on the preferred controller, despite good adherence and control, a step up in treatment may be 


--- Page 3 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 3 of 18 
 
added until control is achieved. This can be a short term or sustained step-up therapy. If control 
is maintained for at least 3 months on the current regimen than treatment can be stepped down to 
the low step of dosage that maintains control. 
 
Patients should be started on treatment based on symptoms with infrequent symptoms beginning 
at step 1 and more frequent, severe and debilitating symptoms beginning at step 4. Notably, 
reliever therapy can be considered for symptom management prior to exercise if needed. 
 
The 2021 GINA guidelines described a 2-treatment track. All the verbiage behind this process 
was discussed.  
 
In March 2022 a new generic was released, breyna. This was the first FDA approved generic for 
Symbicort. This will be marketed under the trade name Breyna for which the launch was 
anticipated for last year. 
 
In April of 2022 the FDA approved ArmonAir Digihaler for the maintenance treatment of 
asthma as prophylactic therapy in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age or older. It was 
previously prescribed for 12 years and older. There were no changes to precautions, dosage or 
availability. 
 
First discussed the single entity utilization. 88% is in line with the PDL. Previous years motion 
Trish White stated that she would move a slight change with the information about the new FDA 
approval of drugs for kids under and would change the inhaled single entity to class effect 
including one high potency product, one low to medium potency product and one product 
approved for children under 5 because she thought that the approval of fluticasone for younger 
children now will make it much more uncommon to need an alternative non-formulary treatment 
like budesonide. Dr. Carlson seconded that motion and the motion passed with one abstination. 
 
DR. CARLSON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Combination Medications (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel discussed combination medication utilization. It is roughly 79-78% in line with 
PDL. Previous years motion Dr. Ryan moved to class effect to include one high potency product, 
one low to medium potency product and a budesonide product. This was seconded by Dr. 
Lilijegren and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY MRS. WHITE. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Bronchodilators (Green Class) 
 


--- Page 4 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 4 of 18 
 
Umang Patel discussed the utilization for bronchodilators. This was about 88% in line with PDL. 
Previous motion was Dr. Ryan moved to class effect, to include both an inhaler and nebulized 
product. This was seconded by Mrs. White and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. GOKEY. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Bronchodilators – long acting (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel discussed the utilization of long-acting bronchodilators. It is roughly 81% in line 
with PDL. Previous years motion Mrs. White moved a class effect to include at least one inhaled 
product in a nebulae solution. This was seconded by Dr. Ryan and passed unanimously. 
 
MRS. WHITE MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Epinephrine (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel discussed the utilization of epinephrine, self-injected. It is 100% in line with PDL. 
Previous years motion Dr. Ryan moved to class effect to include at least one 0.15 mg and one 0.3 
mg auto injecting product. This was seconded by Dr. Lilijegren and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. CARLSON. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Public Comments for Respiratory: Inhaled Glucocorticoids (Blue Class) 
 
VICTORIA ROMO-LETOURNEAU, from Pharm D representing Pfizer gave testimony for 
abrositinib, brand name Cibinqo. This is a JAK inhibitor for atopic dermatitis.  
 
UMANG PATEL let her know that would be under the category of cytokine inhibitors. She 
stated that she was just wanting to remedy the technical difficulties she was having. 
 
Respiratory: Intranasal rhinitis (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for intranasal rhinitis. This affects approximately 
8% of adults and 7% of children in the United States. It is characterized by sneezing as well as 
itching of the eyes, nose, palette, rhinorrhea and nasal obstruction. It is often associated with 
post-nasal drip, cough, irritability and fatigue. Symptoms develop when patients inhale airborne 
antigens to which they have previously been exposed and have made antibodies. Antibodies bind 
to the receptors on the mass cells in respiratory mucosa and the basal cells in the peripheral 
blood. Mass cells release pre-formed and granule associated chemical mediators and mass cells 
generate other inflammatory mediators and cytokines which lead to nasal inflammation and with 
continued allergen exposure chronic symptoms. Perennial allergic rhinitis is an IGE mediated 


--- Page 5 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 5 of 18 
 
reaction to allergens with little or no seasonal variation. This is typically persistent, chronic and 
generally less severe than seasonal allergic rhinitis. Irritant rhinitis is a condition of unknown 
origin. It is aggravated by various things such as fumes and odors, temperature and atmosphere 
changes, smoke and other irritants. This form of rhinitis is generally found in adults and causes 
year-round symptoms that include congestion and headache. 
 
In 2020 the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology recommended inhaled 
antihistamines as first line for seasonal allergic rhinitis, intermittent allergic rhinitis and non-
allergic rhinitis. Intranasal corticosteroids are the preferred monotherapy for persistent allergic 
rhinitis. Those guidelines suggest combination of an intranasal corticosteroid and intranasal 
antihistamine for moderate or severe cases in patients 12 years of age or older in seasonal 
allergic rhinitis, and perennial allergic rhinitis, that is resistance to monotherapy and resistant 
non-allergic rhinitis. An alternative option for rhinorrhea that persists while on intranasal 
corticosteroids is the addition of intranasal ipratropium. If nasal congestion persists despite 
treatment with an intranasal corticosteroid, with or without an intranasal antihistamine, addition 
of an intranasal decongestion for up to 4 weeks may be considered. The guidelines also provide 
pharmacotherapy recommendations using oral agents and strongly recommend use of an oral 
second-generation antihistamine and against prescribing an oral first-generation antihistamine for 
the treatment of allergic rhinitis. 
 
In January of 2022 the FDA approved a new combination medication of olopatadine, a H1 
receptor inhibitor and mometasone furoate a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of 
symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis is adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older.  
 
Precautions were discussed. Dosage was also discussed. 
 
Nasonex 24-hour allergy was updated in March 2022. The FDA approved this for OTC use for 
temporary relief of symptoms of hay fever and other upper respiratory allergies such as nasal 
congestion, sneezing, runny nose and itchy nose in those 2 years of age and older. This is 
considered a partial prescription that OTC switch. For adults and children 12 years of age or 
older they would do 2 sprays in each nostril once daily while sniffing gently. For children 2 to 11 
years of age they would do 1 spray in each nostril once daily. In July 2022 Nasonex for the 
treatment of nasal symptoms of allergic rhinitis and nasal congestion associated with seasonal 
allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age or older has been removed from the RX labeling. 
 
The OTC version of Perrigo, which has not yet been launched, is labeled for the removed 
indications. RX Nasonex is listed as discontinued by the federal register however NDC still 
remain in first databank. 
 
In June 2022 Patanase was discontinued. The FDA has reported that Novartis made a business 
decision to discontinue both brand Patanase and the authorized generic version of this product. 
 
The utilization report was reviewed and stated that they are roughly 99% is in line with the PDL. 
Previous years motion Dr. Lilijegren moved that the drugs in the class were therapeutic 
alternatives to include one anticholinergic, one antihistamine and one corticosteroid. This was 
seconded by Dr. Carlson and passed unanimously. 


--- Page 6 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 6 of 18 
 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT. SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. 
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
Respiratory: Leukotriene modifiers (Green Class) 
 
The utilization report was reviewed and stated that they are roughly 99.9% is in line with the 
PDL. Previous years motion Dr. Carlson moved a class effect to exclude Zileuton. This was 
seconded by Dr. Lilijegren and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO EXCLUDE ZILEUTON. 
SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Respiratory: Antihistamines (Green Class) 
 
The utilization report was reviewed and stated that they are roughly 94% is in line with the PDL. 
Previous years motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect to include an oral syrup or a suspension for 
pediatric dosing. Seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison and passed unanimously.  
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT WITH ORAL SYRUP OR A SUSPENSION FOR 
PEDIATRIC DOSING. SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
 
4-B. 
Cytokine and CAM antagonists, non-GI indications (Red class) 
 
Public Comments for Cytokine and CAM antagonists, non-GI indications (Red Class) 
 
SHIRLEY QUACH, a representative from Novartis, stated that last year updates were given on 
Cosentyx and that since then there have been no new updates. 
 
ERIN NOWAK, a representative from AbbVie, provided some information regarding Rinvoq 
and Skyrizi.  
 
First you have had an upadacitinib with the tradename Rinvoq. It is an oral JAK inhibitor that 
has 6 approved indications. Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, 
ulcerative colitis, atopic dermatitis and non-radiographic axial spondylarthritis. Rinvoq has 
important safety considerations and a black box warning for serious infection, mortality, 
malignancies, MACE, thrombosis, hypersensitivity reactions and other serious adverse reactions 
such as gastrointestinal operations and laboratory abnormalities. 
 
The committee was referred to rxabbvie.com for the full prescribing and safety information. 
 
Remote safety is well studies with clinical trial experience in over 9,900 patients since 2012. The 
overall safety profile is consistent across all indications and both safety and advocacy continue to 


--- Page 7 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 7 of 18 
 
be studied in a comprehensive phase 3 clinical trial program. The benefits and potential risks 
should be considered with all immunomodulators. 
 
She asked that Rinvoq be added to the state preferred drug list for all 6 indications. 
 
The next product that she discussed was Skyrizi. This is an IL-23 antagonist that has 3 approved 
indications. 
 
The first indication is for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults with dose 
administration of 150 milligrams by subcutaneous injection at week 0, week 4 and every 12 
weeks thereafter. 
 
The second indication is for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adults at the same dose 
and administration as plaque psoriasis. 
 
Also, Skyrizi may be administered alone or in combination with non-biologic DMARDs for 
psoriatic arthritis.  
 
The third is for the treatment of moderate to severe active Crohn’s disease in adults. The 
recommended dosing for Skyrizi is unique and starts with 3 induction infusions of 600 
milligrams given IV at week 0, week 4 and week 8. The recommended maintenance dosage is 
180 or 360 milligrams, self-administered, by subcutaneous injection starting up with 12 and 
every 8 weeks thereafter. For Crohn’s disease it is recommended to provide or obtain liver 
enzymes and bilirubin levels prior to initiating treatment. The committee is referred to 
rxabbvie.com for the full prescribing information. 
 
The committee was asked to add Skyrizi to the state approved drug list for all 3 indications. 
 
ANDREW DELGADO, from Bristol Myers Squibb, spoke today on regarding deucravacitinib 
which received FDA approval on September 9, 2022 for adult patients with moderate to severe 
plaque psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. 
 
As we know, psoriasis can be a challenging disease to manage with observational studies 
suggesting a variety of barriers including limited persistence with current therapies, a high rate of 
discontinuation with about 42% and 59% of the patients reports discontinuing an oral or biologic 
treatment respectively over a 24 month period and a high rate of switching with more than half 
of patients switching to other therapies over 24 months of observation. These challenges 
underscore the continued unmet need in this therapeutic space. This is the first and only oral 
once daily selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor with a distinct mechanism of action. Two 
different studies were discussed with the committee as well as safety. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on cytokine and CAM antagonists, non-GI 
indications. The members were advised to look at the appendix listed in SharePoint for the 
indications on these medications.  
 


--- Page 8 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 8 of 18 
 
Cytokines and CAM are chemical mediators involved in inflammatory processes throughout the 
body. Cytokines are small proteins secreted in response to an immune stimulus for the purpose of 
mediating and regulating immunity. Cytokines are widely buried and they contribute to the 
fibrosis and tissue degeneration associated with chronic inflammation primarily by introducing 
the proliferation of fibroblasts and collagen.  
 
Most CAMs are categorized into 3 general families of protein. First is the immunoglobulin super 
family. These are the adhesion molecules that bind integrins to leukocytes and mediate their 
flattening into the blood vessel wall. Second is the integrated family consisting of an alpha and 
beta chain that mediates cell to cell interaction. Lastly is the selected family which is involved in 
the adhesion of leukocytes. Different CAMs have been implicated in inflammatory and vibrant 
and autoimmune diseases.  
 
A slide was then shown for the ACR Arthritis Foundation from 2019 for referral back to the 
guidelines on many of the drugs that will be discussed. 
 
Regarding traditional DMARDs for polyarthritis methotrexate is conditionally recommended 
over leflunomide of sulfasalazine. Subcutaneous methotrexate is conditionally recommended 
over oral methotrexate. For biologic DMARDs in patients with polyarthritis combination therapy 
with a DMARD is conditionally recommended over biologic monotherapy when initiating 
treatment with a biologic. 
 
Only the pertinent recommendations were discussed as there are a lot of recommendations and 
committee members were urged to ask questions if they had any regarding the recommendations 
that were not discussed. Guidelines were also discussed for the cytokine and CAM antagonists, 
non-GI indications. Again, committee members could look back to the SharePoint for the 
recommendations and guidelines. 
 
The utilization showed that roughly 77.7% was in line with PDL. During this year’s motion Dr. 
Liljegren moved that the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives to include at least one 
oral preparation, one formulation for pediatrics, one for arthritis, one for psoriasis and a 
grandfather clause for patients who previously responded to other agents. This was seconded by 
Dr. Ryan and passed unanimously. 
 
Charles Ryan discussed that he did not think there was a reason to have a grandfather clause 
anymore. He also stated he did not know if it was necessary to single out arthritis and psoriasis 
since there are so many indications. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY MRS. WHITE. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
4-C. 
Immunosuppressants  
 
Immunosuppressants (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on immunosuppressants.  


--- Page 9 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 9 of 18 
 
 
The open goal of immunosuppressive therapy after organ transplantation is to prevent organ 
rejection for long-graft and patient survival by providing an environment of permanent 
acceptance of tolerance. Where the new organ is recognized as self by the host immune system 
projection can be classified by hyperacute, acute cellular or chronic. Hyperacute may occur when 
donor specific antibodies are present in the recipient at the time of transplant. It often occurs 
within minutes of transplant but may occur anytime within the first 2 weeks following surgery. 
Acute cellular rejection may occur as early as a few days postoperatively however it can occur 
any time after transplantation. The process of chronic rejection is poorly understood although it 
may simply be a slow form of cellular rejection. The clinical presentation of chronic rejection is 
dependent on the organ, rapid, and generally presents as normal organ aging. The onset of 
chronic rejection is very slow and the changes in organ function are not usually reversible. 
 
They next discussed the sequence of events of rejection of a donor system. These events can take 
place at varying rates and may involve differing effects or mechanisms. Therefore, rejection of 
the transplant to tissues can take place at any time following surgery. The immunosuppressive 
drugs and dosing used in maintenance of transplanted organs varies but the regimens generally 
follow the same principles following induction therapy at the time of surgery. Transplant 
recipients are started on drug regimens that consist of several categories. Using multiple agents 
capitalizes on the different and the mediated mechanisms of action and they allow for the use of 
lower doses of individual agents in order to minimize toxicity.  
 
In June 2022 the FDA expanded Cellcept’s indication for mycophenolate mofetil for the 
prophylaxis of organ rejection to include pediatric patients of allogenic heart and liver 
transplants. Previously safety and efficacy for pediatric use in allogenic heart or liver transplants 
had not been established but use had been established in pediatric patients 3 months or older for 
prophylaxis of kidney rejection after allogenic kidney transplant as well as for prevention of 
organ rejection in adults with allogenic heart or liver transplants. The expanded indication 
includes use for prophylaxis of organ rejection in adults and pediatric recipients 3 months of age 
or older for allogenic kidney, heart or liver transplant in combination with other 
immunosuppressants. No changes to any warnings, precautions, black box warnings or 
availability. The dosing is stratified by the organ that is being transplanted. For pediatric heart or 
liver transplant recipients the recommended starting dose is 600 mg per meter squared orally 
twice daily up to a maximum of 900 mg per meter squared twice daily. This will be 3 grams or 
15 ml of the oral suspension.  
 
We have the utilization where roughly 84% is in line with the PDL.  Previous years motion Dr. 
Liljegren moved the drugs be therapeutic alternatives and was seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison. 
This passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. CARLSON. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-D. 
Dermatologic Agents: Topical Antipsoriatics (Red Class), Immunomodulators (Red 
Class)  


--- Page 10 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 10 of 18 
 
 
Dermatologic Agents: Topical antipsoriatics (Red Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on dermatologic agents, topical antipsoriatics. 
 
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory multi-system condition with predominantly skin 
and joint defined as arthritis manifestation. It is characterized by arithmetic plaques with silvery 
scales which negatively impacts quality of life. It is estimated that over 8 million people in the 
US have psoriasis. Prevalence of psoriasis is 2% in African Americans, 1.6% in Hispanics and 
3.6% in Caucasians. It usually presents between the ages of 15 and 35 but actually can onset at 
any age. There are 5 types of psoriasis plaque, guttate, inverse, pustular and erythrodermic. Most 
common type is plaque psoriasis or plaque psoriasis vulgaris in which patches or lesions of skin 
become inflamed and is covered by a silvery white scale. The plaques frequently occur on the 
skin of the elbows and knees but can affect any area including the scalp. Mild to moderate 
psoriasis is generally treated with topical agents. Phototherapy is used when the disease is 
widespread or unresponsive to topical agents. Systemic agents including biologic drugs are 
usually reserved for patients with moderate to severe disease for those of psoriatic arthritis. 
Moderate to severe psoriasis is defined as an involvement of more than 5-10 % of the body 
surface area of involvement of face, palms or sole or disease that is otherwise disabling. Patients 
with moderate to severe disease are generally candidates for systemic therapy. Options for 
systemic therapy can include methotrexate, cyclosporin, retinoids, biologics and methoxatin plus 
UV radiation.  
 
The guidelines for this subclass are all over a year. They’re found in the appendix for any 
committee members that would like to look at them. 
 
In May 2022 the FDA approved Vtama which is an aerial hydrocarbon receptor agonist indicated 
for the topical treatment of plaques psoriasis in adults. Since this is topical the dosing is a thin 
layer to the affected area once daily. It is available in a 1% cream and each gram contains 10 mg 
of tapinarof. 
 
In August 2022 the FDA approved Zoryve 0.3% cream, a phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor, for 
treatment of psoriasis including intertriginous areas in patients 12 years of age or older. It is 
contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe liver impairment. Most common adverse 
reactions were diarrhea, headache and insomnia as well as site application pain, upper respiratory 
tract infection and urinary tract infection. Being a topical agent, it is applied once daily to the 
affected area and is a 0.3% cream of which 3 mg of roflumilast per gram and comes in a 60-gram 
tube. 
 
Roughly about 83% of prescriptions were in line with the PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan 
moved the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives. Seconded by Dr. Carlson and was 
passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR. GOKEY. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNAMIMOUSLY. 
 


--- Page 11 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 11 of 18 
 
Dermatologic Agents: Immunomodulators (Red Class) 
 
Public Comments on Dermatologic Agents: Immunomodulators 
 
ERIN NOWAK, a representative from AbbVie, spoke about Rinvoq. It was approved in January 
2022 for atopic dermatitis. Given that this was reviewed in a prior class she gave her time back 
to the committee. 
 
VALERIE NG, a representative from LEO Pharma, gave testimony on Adbry. It was approved 
in December 2021 by the FDA and it is the first and only human high affinity monoclonal 
antibody that specifically binds to and inhibits IL13. IL13 has been shown to be a cytokine 
driving inflammation in atopic dermatitis or AD skin. Adbry is indicated for the treatment of 
moderate to severe AD in adult patients whose disease is not adequately controlled with topical 
prescription therapies or when those therapies are not advisable. Adbry can be used with or 
without topical corticosteroids and the recommended dose, which is an initial dose of 600 mg via 
subcutaneous injection followed by 300 mg every other week. A dosage of 300 mg every 4 
weeks, or monthly, may be considered for patients below 100 kg who achieve clear or almost 
clear skin after 16 weeks of treatment. Efficacy was assessed in over 1,900 adult patients in 3 
pivotal trials where AD redemonstrated superiority over placebo for primary and secondary 
endpoints at week 16 and maintain those responses with long term treatment through 32 and 52 
weeks. The monthly dosing option for eligible patients was also shown to be effective after 16 
weeks of every 2 weeks treatment providing the lowest effective dose and fewer injections to 
maintain control of their chronic disease. Majority of the adverse events reported int eh trials 
were non-serious and mild or moderate in severity. Overall frequency of adverse events was 
comparable across treatment groups and did not increase during prolonged treatment of up to 52 
weeks. A long-term extension trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of every patient who 
participated in previous clinical trials is currently ongoing with interim data available for patients 
who receive Adbry for up to 3 and a half years. We would like for the committee to consider 
adding Adbry to the PDL as a preferred product for adult patients suffering from moderate to 
severe atopic dermatitis who had an inadequate response to topical prescription therapies.  
 
VICTORIA ROMO-LETOURNEAU, a representative from Pharm D and Pfizer, gave 
testimony on Cibinqo, a JAK inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with refractory 
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. This disease is not adequately controlled with other 
systemic drug products including biologics or when use of those therapies is inadvisable. The 
efficacy of Cibinqo as monotherapy and in combination with topical corticosteroids was 
evaluated in 3 randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trials and over 1,600 patients, 12 
years of age and older, with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. 
 
In the 2 monotherapy trials the patients with an IGA score of clear or almost clear scans and at 
least a 75% improvement in eczema areas and severity index was statistically higher in both 
treatment arms of abrositinib compared to placebo. The proportion of subjects achieving an itch 
improvement at week 2 was higher in the patients treated with Cibinqo in both treatment arms 
compared to placebo in all 3 trials. Please do refer to the full prescribing information. There is a 
boxed warning for JAK inhibitors for serious infections, mortality, malignancy and major 
adverse cardiovascular events and thrombosis. These events have occurred in a trial involving 


--- Page 12 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 12 of 18 
 
another JAK inhibitor used in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Note that Cibinqo is not approved for 
use in RA patients. Cibinqo is contraindicated in patients taking antiplatelet therapy except for 
low dose aspirin during the first three months of treatment. Some of the most common adverse 
reactions in the clinical trials were nasal pharyngitis, nausea, headache and acne. 
 
In conclusion, atopic dermatitis continues to have a high unmet medical need and adding an 
orally administered medication offers an additional treatment option for patients with atopic 
dermatitis. Based on the efficacy and safety of Cibinqo we request that you consider adding 
Cibinqo to the PDL. Thank you to the committee for their time. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on dermatologic agents: immunomodulators. 
Atopic dermatitis is a chronic non-contagious inflammatory disease of the skin resulting from a 
combination of genetic and environmental factors. 70% of patients diagnosed with atopic 
dermatitis have a positive family history of the disease. The odds of developing are 2 to 3 times 
higher in children with one atopic parent and 3 to 5 times higher if both parents are atopic. It 
affects approximately 18 million Americans and accounts for 10 to 20% of all visits to the 
dermatologists. Although symptoms can develop at any age it has been estimated that 50% of 
patients develop symptoms in the first year of life while 90% develop symptoms before the age 
of 5 and a half. 
 
Atopic dermatitis is characterized by extremely dry itchy skin on the insides of elbows, behind 
the knees, on the face, hands and feet. In response to the intense itching patients may scratch or 
rub the affected area which will lead to further irritation and inflammation. As the skin loses 
moisture of the epidermal layer it becomes increasingly dry and may start to crack, leave crust 
and scale. The damage to the integrity of the skin renders it less protective and more prone to 
infection. Despite the chronic nature of this dermatologic condition where there may be periods 
of the disease when skin improves and periods when skin worsens. Irritants such as detergents, 
perfumes, tobacco smoke and alcohol containing skin products as well as allergens like dust 
mites, pollen and animal dander may exacerbate or cause flare ups. 
 
In December 2021 the FDA approved Adbry, an IL13 antagonist indicated for the treatment of 
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in patients who were not adequately controlled with topical 
prescription therapies or when those therapies are not advisable. Therapy can be used with or 
without topical corticosteroids.  
 
In terms of warnings and precautions conjunctivitis keratitis has been seen as well as parasitic 
helmet infections and risk of infection with live vaccines. 
 
The dosage is an initial dose of 600 mg or 150 mg injection followed by 300 mg administered 
every other week. A dosage of 300 mg every 4 weeks may be considered for patients below 100 
kg to achieve clear or almost clear skin. After 16 weeks of treatment the availability is 150 mg 
per milliliter solution in a single dose prefilled syringe with a needle guard for an injection. 
 
There were a lot of updates for Dupixent. Due to the numerous updates, it is presented differently 
with only the respective updates. 
 


--- Page 13 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 13 of 18 
 
In May 2022 the FDA approved Dupixent for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 
years of age or older weighing over 40 kg or more with eosinophilic esophagitis. It was already 
indicated for atopic dermatitis, asthma and chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. 
 
In June 2022 the FDA expanded the age range for atopic dermatitis indication to the treatment of 
patients 6 months of age or older with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not 
adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or when those therapies are not 
advisable. Previously it was indicated for treatment of atopic dermatitis in patients 6 years of age 
or older. 
 
In September 2022 the FDA granted approval under priority review for the treatment of adults 
with prurigo nodularis at a recommended dose of 600 mg followed by 300 mg every other week 
by subcutaneous injection. 
 
In November 2022, the FDA authorized use of a single dose prefilled pen in patients 6 months to 
less than 12 years of age when administered by a caregiver. Previously only the prefilled syringe 
was approved for use in this age. The pens deliver 100 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg and pediatric 
indications impacted are severe atopic dermatitis and severe asthma which are approved for 
patients as young as 6 months and 6 years respectively. As you can imagine dosage is stratified 
by indicated, age and weight. The availability was updated in November for the single dose, 
prefilled pen and syringe. 
 
Lastly, we observe Opzelura. In July 2022 they indicated Opzelura topical treatment of non-
segmental vitiligo in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older. No changes to 
warnings and precautions. Dosing again, this is a topical treatment. No changes to availability.  
 
When we look at utilization, you can see about 96% is in line with a PDL. Last years motion Dr. 
Liljegren moved the drugs in the class for therapeutic alternatives to include at least one pediatric 
approved preparation. Seconded by Dr. Ryan and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE PEDIATRIC 
APPROVED PREPARATION, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION WAS 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-E. 
Dermatitis: Topical steroids (Green Class), Acne (Red Class) 
 
Dermatitis: Topical steroids (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on topical steroids. As you can see topical steroids 
is stratified by potency of low, medium, high and very high. All of these classes are green. The 
motion for all subclasses is one motion so we will go right through to utilization. 
 
In regards to utilization for low potency roughly 80% was in line with PDL. For medium potency 
it was about 85% in line with the PDL. High potency was roughly 96% in line with PDL. Very 
high potency was 93% in line with the PDL. The previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect 


--- Page 14 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 14 of 18 
 
within each potency group to include at least one ointment and one cream from each potency 
group and to amend the motion to a class effect within each potency group and to include at least 
one ointment, one cream and one pediatric formulation from each potency group. This was 
seconded by Dr. Liljegren and passed unanimously.  
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE OINTMENT AND ONE CREAM 
FROM EACH POTENCY GROUP AND TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE PEDIATRIC 
FORMULATION FROM EACH POTENCY GROUP, SECONDED BY DR. GOKEY. 
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
Dermatitis: Acne (Red Class)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on acne. Acne vulgaris is the most common 
cutaneous condition in the United States. It’s a disorder that primarily affects teenagers and 
young adults but it can sometimes persist beyond young adulthood and adolescents. Sebaceous 
glands increase sebum release after puberty. Comedones form in the hair follicles due to 
blockage of the pore from accumulated sebum and keratinous material. Bacteria release free fatty 
acids from sebum within the comedone which cause inflammation to form a cyst. This results in 
a rupture of a cyst wall and subsequent inflammatory reaction due to extrusion of oily and 
keratinous debris from the sieve. There are 3 categories of severity of acne to include either acne 
occurring on the face or trunk of the body. These categories are created as mild, moderate or 
severe. Depending on the presence and number of lesions which consist of comedones, papules, 
pustules and/or cysts. 
 
Mild acne is defined by the presence of fewer than 20 comedones, fewer than 15 inflamed 
papules or fewer than 30 lesions consisting of the combination of comedone and papules. 
Moderate acne is defined as the presence of 15 to 50 papules and pustules in addition to 
comedones and rare cysts and the total number of lesions on the face can range from 30 to 125. 
Severe acne is defined by the presence of mostly inflamed nodules and cysts and include more 
than 125 lesions consisting of comedones papules and pustules. 
 
In December 2021 the FDA approved Twyneo. This medication is a combination of tretinoin 
retinoid and benzyl peroxide indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adult and 
pediatric patients 9 years of age and older. In terms of warnings, hypersensitivity, reactions have 
occurred including anaphylaxis and angioedema. They have been reported with the use of benzyl 
peroxide. Skin irritations such as pain, dryness, exfoliation, erythema and irritation may occur 
with use. Photosensitivity is also possible due to the retinoid combination. For dosage apply a 
thin layer to the affected area once daily. The availability is a 0.1% tretinoin and 3% benzyl 
peroxide cream combination. 
 
There were a few generics. In February 2022 clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin was the first 
generic from Almirell’s Veltin from Solaris. In September 2022 the FDA approved tazarotene as 
a generic to Allergan’s Tazorac topical gel 0.1% from Cosette.  
 


--- Page 15 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 15 of 18 
 
In regards to utilization 85% are in line with the PDL. Previous years motion Dr. Liljegren 
moved the drugs in the class to therapeutic alternatives to include one drug from each subclass 
and at least one combination benzyl peroxide and antibiotics. Seconded by Mrs. White and 
passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE ONE DRUG FROM EACH 
SUBCLASS AND AT LEAST ONE COMBINATION BENZYL PEROXIDE AND 
ANTIBIOTICS. SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-F. 
Ophthalmic Agents: Allergic conjunctivitis (Blue Class), Antibiotics (Green Class), 
Antibiotic Steroids (Green Class), Anti-Inflammatory offline agents (Green Class), 
Glaucoma (Red Class) 
 
Ophthalmic Agents: Allergic Conjunctivitis (Blue Class)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ophthalmic agents: allergic conjunctivitis. 
Conjunctivitis is the inflammation of the conjunctiva which may occur secondary to infections or 
non-infectious stimuli. Seasonal, vernal, atopic and giant papillary conjunctivitis are non-
infectious types of conjunctivitis. Infectious types include viral and bacterial. Estimated 
prevalence of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis is 15%. The condition occurs in both adults and 
children and is one of the most common reasons for patient’s self-referral. Signs and symptoms 
of the disorder may cause extreme discomfort. Seasonal allergic conjunctivitis usually presents 
bilaterally and occurs during seasonal exposure to allergens such as ragweed. Perennial has a 
similar initiated presentation however symptoms do not have a seasonal variation and the range 
of symptoms varies from itching to redness, swelling, excessive lacrimation and mucous 
discharge. As with allergic rhinitis avoidance of identified allergens is part of comprehensive 
therapy for allergic conjunctivitis. Vernal keratoconjunctivitis is an unusually severe chronic 
condition of exacerbations during spring and summer months. It is more common in children and 
young adults and is more prevalent in hot, dry climates. Patients present with severe eye itching, 
discharge and photophobia. Eyelid thickening, ptosis, corneal ulceration and infection can occur. 
If it is left untreated and is severe it can lead to permanent vision loss. 
 
Common therapies include topical antihistamines and topical mass cell stabilizers. Topical 
corticosteroids are usually needed to reduce inflammation. Topical cyclosporin 0.25% or 
tacrolimus 0.1% can be added to reduce the required dose of corticosteroid, particularly in severe 
cases.  
 
In December 2021 the FDA approved this for OTC use in adults and pediatric patients ages 2 
years and older. It contains the same 0.25% strength and is indicated for temporary relief of itchy 
eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander. The dosage is 1 drop in the affected 
eye once daily. 
 
There was a discontinuation of Alocril in May 2022. Allergen reported to the FDA the 
discontinuation of Alocril 2% and no generic products are available.  
 


--- Page 16 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 16 of 18 
 
Roughly 89% of the utilization was in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the 
drugs in the class with therapeutic alternatives. Seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison and passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED FOR THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY MRS. 
WHITE. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmic Agents: Antibiotics (Green Class), Antibiotic Steroids (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel moved directly to utilization for antibiotics as well as antibiotic steroid due to them 
both being a green class.  In terms of utilization for antibiotics roughly 98% of the utilization is 
in line with PDL. For antibiotic steroids roughly 97% of the utilization is in line with the PDL. 
Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect for each subclass of ophthalmic antibiotics and 
that the drugs and ophthalmic antibiotic steroid combinations were therapeutic alternatives. This 
was seconded by Dr. Liljegren and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE CLASS EFFECT FOR EACH SUBCLASS OF OPTHALMIC 
ANTIBIOTICS AND THAT THE DRUGS AND OPTHALMIC ANTIBIOTIC STEROID 
COMBINATIONS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES. THIS WAS SECONDED 
BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmic Agents: Anti-inflammatory Offline Agents (Green Class)  
 
Uman Patel moved directly to utilization for this due to it being a green class. It is 92% in line 
with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class with therapeutic alternatives 
to include one drug from each subclass. Seconded by Dr. Liljegren and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE ONE DRUG FROM EACH SUBCLASS. SECONDED 
BY DR. GOKEY. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmic Agents: Glaucoma (Red Class)  
 
Public Comments on Ophthalmic Agents: Glaucoma 
 
ERIN NOWAK, a representative from AbbVie, gave testimony on Lumigan 0.1% ophthalmic 
solution. This is indicated for the reduction of elevated interocular pressure in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. She acknowledged that the committee already 
reviewed them in detail so she touched on a few key points. First, Lumigan has 2 modes of 
action. While the mechanism of action is not fully characterized it is believed to lower 
interocular pressure by increasing outflow of aqueous humor through both the trabecular 
meshwork and uveoscleral route. It selectively mimics the effects of the naturally occurring 
process. Next, she brought attention to the fact that it has a lower concentration and produced 
equitable interocular pressure lowering efficacy across the 12-month study while cutting the 
treatment related adverse effects to one-third and the discontinuation over time due to ocular 
adverse events was also significantly lower. This class may be valuable for patients who are not 


--- Page 17 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 17 of 18 
 
reaching their treatment goal with an initial therapy. This allows a patient to stay on a single 
medication used once daily at bedtime and continued a simplified eye drop regimen by not 
requiring wait time between different eyes. 
 
The most common adverse event was conductible hyperemia in the pivotal study. Approximately 
1.6% of patients discontinued therapy for this reason. She directed committee members to 
rxabbvie.com for full prescribing information. 
 
Uman Patel gave the Magellan presentation on glaucoma. Glaucoma affects approximately 3 
million people in the United States. It is the second most common cause of permanent blindness 
in the US. It is the leading cause of blindness among Hispanics and the second most among 
African Americans. Increased IOP, intraocular pressure, is common in glaucoma and is believed 
to contribute to the damage to the optic nerve which can lead to loss of visual sensitivity and 
field. Some patients, however, with glaucoma have normal IOP and many patients with the 
elevated IOP do not have glaucoma. IOP alone is no longer considered a diagnostic criterion for 
glaucoma. Major types of glaucoma have been identified as open angle and closed. In open angle 
there is reduced flow through the trabecular meshwork. Open angle glaucoma accounts for the 
majority of cases. In closed angle glaucoma the iris is pushed forward against the trabecular 
meshwork blocking fluid from escaping. 
 
Risk factors for the development of glaucoma include elevated IOP, advanced staging, family 
history of glaucoma, African Americans over 40 years of age or Hispanic descent. The treatment 
goal is to maintain the IOP in a range at which the optic nerve, head and retinal nerve fiber layer 
are stable as well as preserve visual function and quality of life over the lifetime. Patients with 
primary open angle glaucoma commonly have untreated IOP that is within normal range, 
however, decreasing pressure is still beneficial in these patients.  
 
In September 2022, the FDA approved Omlonti, a relatively selective prostaglandin E2 receptor 
for the reduction of elevated IOP in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
Warnings and precautions are fragmentation, eyelash changes, ocular inflammation or macular 
ischemia. The recommended dosage is one drop to the effected eye once daily in the evening. 
The availability are solutions containing 0.002% of the medication. 
 
In April 2022 Merck reported to the FDA the discontinuation of Trusopt 2% ophthalmic 
solution. Generics remain available. 
 
It is 93% in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class with 
therapeutic alternatives to include one drug from each subclass. Seconded by Dr. Doran-
Atchison and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE ONE DRUG FROM EACH SUBCLASS. SECONDED 
BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Ophthalmic Agents: Immunomodulators (Blue Class)  
 


--- Page 18 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
January 20,2023 
Page 18 of 18 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ophthalmic agents: immunomodulators. 
Keratoconjunctiva sicca, KCS, as discussed earlier, is defined as aqueous dry eye disease related 
to either decreased tear volume or rapid evaporative loss due to poor tear quality. These 
conditions may be present in dry eye syndrome. The term dry eye syndrome, or dry eye disease, 
keratoconjunctivitis sicca or keratitis sicca are often used interchangeably with the term 
keratoconjunctivitis sicca being an older term. There is considerable overlap with other optimal 
conditions such as meibomian gland dysfunction. This affects approximately 10 to 30% of the 
US population and occurs more commonly in patients over 50 years of age with approximately 
twice as many women as men affected. However, due to the use of soft contact lenses and 
frequent smartphone and computer usage the prevalence is increasing among young adults aged 
18 to 34. Patients may have the following complaints: sensation of ocular dryness, grittiness, a 
foreign body, irritation, hyperemia, discharge, excess tearing, photophobia and/or blurry vision. 
 
In February 2022, the FDA approved the first generic for Restasis, a cyclosporin ophthalmic 
emulsion 0.05% to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be 
suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. It was labeled 
for approval under Verkazia. 
 
On the next and final slide about 38% of utilization was in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. 
Ryan moved the class with therapeutic alternatives. This was second by Dr. Liljegren and passed 
unanimously. 
 
The primary reason the utilization is not in line with the PDL like other classes is a majority of 
the prescriptions were for the cyclosporin generic and authorized generic, which are not 
preferred. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. GOKEY. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNAIMOUSLY. 
 
5. 
End of Public Meeting 
 
6.  
Review Minutes from November 18, 2022. 
 
There were no changes to the meeting minutes of November 18, 2022. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED TO APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES OF 
NOVEMBER 18, 2022. SECONDED BY MRS. WHITE. THE MOTION WAS PASSED 
BY ALL MEMBERS. 
 
7. 
Comments From Committee Members 
8. 
Adjourn 
 
MRS. WHITE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING. THE NEXT MEETING WAS 
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL 21, 2023. WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE MEETING WAS 
ADJOURNED.\n