STATE: Alaska\nURL: https://health.alaska.gov/media/c5gfugl4/pnt_minutes_20230915.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://health.alaska.gov/en/education/pdl-preferred-drug-list/\n\n--- Page 1 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Alaska Medicaid Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
 
 
 
 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
September 15, 2023 
 
 
 
Committee Members Present:                                                      Committee Members Absent: 
John Riley, PA, Acting Chairman  
 
 
 
 
Robert Carlson, MD 
Charles Semling PharmD, DHSS                        
         
Casey Gokey  
Sarah Doren-Atchison, PharmD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Valarie Bixler, PharmD 
Claudia Phillips, MD  
 
Charles Ryan, MD 
Trisha White, R.Ph. 
 
Others Present: 
Ryan Ruggles, Pharm D 
Umang Patel 
Erin Nowak, AbbVie 
Alisa Nguyen, Azeri Pharmaceuticals 
Nirmal Ghuman, Janssen 
Stuart O’Brochta, Gilead 
Mandeep Sohul, Teva 
Ray Kong, Newark and Bio Sciences Medical Affairs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 2 of 22 
 
 
1.  
Call to Order – Chair 
 
Mr. Riley called the meeting to order. 
 
2.  
Roll Call 
 
The roll call was taken, and a quorum was present. 
 
3.  
Public Comments - Local Public/Health Practitioners 
 
None. 
 
4.  
Class Review, Discussion & Vote 
 
4-A. 
Gastrointestinal:  Anti-emetics/Anti-vertigo (green), GI Motility/Irritable Bowel 
Syndrome, Chronic (blue), Ulcerative Colitis (green), Cytokine & Cell-Adhesion 
Molecules (CAM) Antagonist – GI indicated (red), Proton Pump Inhibitors (blue) 
 
Anti-Emetics/Anti-Vertigo (Green Class)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for anti-emetic and anti-vertigo.   Given there was 
nothing new on this he went directly to utilization where roughly 99 percent was in line with the 
PDL. 
 
Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved the drug in the class were therapeutic alternatives. Seconded 
by Dr. Doren-Atchison. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE SAME MOTION AS LAST YEAR. SECONDED BY DR. 
PHILLIPS. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
GI Motility/Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Chronic (Blue Class) 
 
Public Comments for GI Motility/Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Chronic (Blue Class) 
 
ERIN NOWAK, medical outcomes and science liaison with medical affairs at AbbVie., spoke 
on linaclotide otherwise known as Linzess.  It is a guanylate cyclase-C agonist indicated for the 
treatment of adults with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and chronic idiopathic 
constipation.  She is thankful that linaclotide is available on the PDL.  One update to share is that 
in June of 2023 linaclotide was approved for the treatment of functional constipation in pediatric 
patients ages 6 – 17 years making it the first FDA approved treatment for this indication.  The 
recommended FDA approved dose is 72 mcg once daily.  Functional constipation is a common 
gastrointestinal disorder in pediatric patients with a prevalence in the US of 14.1 percent in those 
4 years of age and older.  In the pivotal 12 week double blind placebo controlled trial of 328 
pediatric patients linaclotide 72 mcg demonstrated significant improvement compared to placebo 
and the primary endpoint of * 12 week mean change from baseline in spontaneous bowel 


--- Page 3 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 3 of 22 
 
movements.  Spontaneous bowel frequency improved during week 1 and was maintained out to 
the 12 week treatment period.  The most common adverse event in clinical trial was diarrhea and 
linaclotide has a boxed warning for risk of serious dehydration and is contraindicated in patients 
less than 2 years of age.  It is also contraindicated in patients with known or suspected 
mechanical GI obstruction.  For complete safety and efficacy information please refer to the 
study information.  She asked that the prior authorization criteria be updated for the new 
indication of pediatric functional constipation. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation for GI motility and irritable bowel syndrome, 
chronic.  He started by giving the disease state description for both diseases.  In 2022, guidelines 
for both IBS-C and IBS-D the panel provides a strong recommendation for the use of linaclotide 
in IBS-C over no drug treatment, Tenapanor, plecanatide and lubiprostone and suggested in IBS-
C management with moderate certainty over no drug treatment.  The panel also conditionally 
suggests the use of polyethylene glycol laxatives for IBC-C over no drug treatment.  For IBS-D 
the suggestions for this are the use of eluxadoline, rifaximin and alosetron over no drug 
treatment.  TSAs and antispasmodic agents are conditionally suggested with low certainty for 
IBS-C and IBS-D over no drug treatment.  The panel suggests against the use of SSRIs for IBS-
C and IBS-D treatment.  The AGA also indicated that patients with mild symptoms often 
respond to dietary changes such as increasing fiber intake and reducing exposure to intolerant 
foods while pharmacologic intervention is typically reserved for patients with moderate to severe 
symptoms. 
 
In June 2023, the FDA approved Linzess for treatment of functional constipation in pediatric 
patients ages 6-17 years of age.  There were no changes to limitations, dosing or formulations. 
 
In February 2023, the FDA approved the first generic to Allergan’s Linzess capsules from 
Aurobindo.  
 
Utilization shows that 75 percent is in line with PDL. Previously Mr. Riley moved the drugs in 
the class were therapeutic alternatives. This was seconded by Dr. Phillips and passed 
unanimously. 
 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS ARE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES. SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS. THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
Ulcerative Colitis (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on ulcerative colitis.  Utilization is roughly 77 
percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the class were 
therapeutic alternatives and to include at least one delayed-release agent, one prodrug short 
acting agent and one rectal preparation.  Seconded by Dr. Phillips.  The motion passed 
unanimously. 
 


--- Page 4 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 4 of 22 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE SAME MOTION, SECONDED BY TRISH WHITE. THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Cytokine & Cell-Adhesion Molecules (CAM) Antagonist – GI indicated (Red class) 
 
Public comments for Cytokine & Cell-Adhesion Molecules (CAM) Antagonist – GI indicated 
(Red class) 
 
ERIN NOWAK, medical outcomes and science liaison with medical affairs at AbbVie., spoke 
on risankizumab also known as Skyrizi and upadacitinib also known as Rinvoq.  Risankizumab 
is indicated for moderately to severely active Chron’s disease in adults and met both primary end 
points of clinical remission and endoscopic response at week 12 and 52.  It is contraindicated in 
patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity to risankizumab or accipients.  She referred to 
the prescribing information for full efficacy and safety information.  Upadacitinib is an oral JAK 
inhibitor that is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis in adults who have had an inadequate response or tolerance to one or more TNF 
blockers.  Crohn’s disease is the latest and seventh indication for upadacitinib and it met both 
primary endpoints of clinical remission and systemic response at weeks 12 and 52 versus 
placebo.  Clinical response was seen in as early as 2 weeks.  Again, she referred to the full 
prescribing and safety information online including the box warning.  Upadacitinib is an oral 
option for IBD and is the first JAK inhibitor and oral advanced treatment option for Crohn’s 
disease.  Having an oral advanced therapy for IBD on the Alaska PDL may be advantageous for 
Alaskan’s living in rural areas.  She closed in asking that both risankizumab and upadacitinib be 
added to the state preferred drug list for these indications. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on cytokine and CAM antagonists GI class.   They 
are chemical mediators involved in inflammatory processes throughout the body.  He gave the 
disease state description of cytokines and CAMs.  Next, he went on to give the disease state 
description of ulcerative colitis.  Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory disease primarily 
affecting the colon and rectum.  UC affects approximately 100,000 people in the US and the 
incidence continues to increase worldwide.  The CDC estimates that the current prevalence of 
UC to be at 249 per 1,000,000 adults.  UC may present at any age but onset typically peaks 
between 15 and 30 years of age.  The disease is characterized by superficial infiltration of the 
bowel wall by inflammatory white cells resulting in multiple mucosal ulcerations and cyst 
abscesses.  The predominant symptom of UC is diarrhea which is usually associated with blood 
in the stool.  Additional symptoms may include pain in the lower quadrant or rectum along with 
systemic features including fever, malaise and weight loss which are more common if a greater 
portion of the colon is affected.  The initial attack of UC may be fulminant with bloody diarrhea 
but the disease more commonly begins incidentally with non-bloody diarrhea progressing to 
bloody diarrhea.  UC can present initially with any extent of anatomic involvement ranging from 
disease confined to the rectum to the entire large intestine (pancolitis).  Most commonly UC 
follows a chronic intermittent course with long periods of quiescence interspersed with acute 
attacks lasting weeks to months.  However, a significant percentage of patients suffer a chronic 
continuous course. 
 


--- Page 5 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 5 of 22 
 
In 2021, the AGA issued a guideline on the medical management of moderate to severe luminal 
and perianal fistulizing Crohn’s disease and notable recommendations regarding agents within 
this class are described.  In adults outpatients with moderate to severe CD the AGA recommends 
the use of TNF antagonists or ustekinumab over no treatment for the induction and maintenance 
of remission and the AGA suggests the use of vedolizumab over no treatment for induction for 
moderate evidence and maintenance of remission for low and moderate evidence.  In biologic 
treatment-naïve adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD the AGA recommends the use of 
infliximab, adalimumab or ustekinumab (moderate evidence) over certolizumab pegol (low 
evidence) and suggests the use of vedolizumab over certolizumab pegol for the induction of 
remission.  In adult outpatients with moderate to severe CD who never responded to TNF 
antagonists the AGA recommends ustekinumab (moderate evidence) and suggests vedolizumab 
(low evidence) over no treatment of the induction of remission.  If patients had previously 
responded to infliximab and the AGA recommends adalimumab or ustekinumab (moderate 
evidence for both) and suggests vedolizumab (low evidence) over no treatment for the induction 
of remission.  The group also recommends the use of biologic drug monotherapy over thiopurine 
monotherapy for the induction of remission (moderate evidence).  In adult outpatients with 
moderate to severe CD who are treatment-naïve to biologics and immunomodulators the AGA 
suggests infliximab plus thiopurines over infliximab monotherapy (moderate evidence) and 
adalimumab plus thiopurines over adalimumab monotherapy (very low evidence) for induction 
and maintenance remission.  The AGA does not make recommendations regarding the use of 
ustekinumab or vedolizumab as monotherapy or in combination with another agent.  For those 
with an active perianal fistula the AGA recommends infliximab over no treatment for the 
induction and maintenance of fistula remission (low evidence).  Risankizumab-rzaa and 
upadacitinib were not approved for CD at the time these guidelines were developed.  The role of 
natalizumab (Tysabri) and other agents not in this therapeutic class are also addressed in the 
guidance. 
 
Drug specific updates were discussed next.  Several adalimumab (Humira) biosimilars have 
launched per manufacturer press releases.  These commercially available Humira biosimilars on 
the market include: adalimumab-adbm (Cyltezo) from Boehringer Ingelheim, adalimumab-bwwd 
(Hadlima) from Organon, adalimumab-fkjp (Hulio) from Biocon, adalimumab-adaz (Hyrimoz) 
high-concentration from Sandoz, adalimumab-aacf (Idacio) from Fresenius Kabi, adalimumab-
aaty (Yuflyma) from Celtrion and adalimumab-aqvh (Yusimry) from Coherus.  All products are 
available as a low-concentration formulation except Hyrimoz and Yuflyma.  Hadlima, Hyrimoz 
and Yuflyma are available as high concentration formulation.  Citrate free formulations include 
Cyltezo, Hadlima (high concentration), Hulio, Hyrimoz (high concentration), Idacio, Yuflyma 
and Yusimry.  Cyltezo is interchangeable with Humira.  The citrate free biosimilar adalimumab-
atto (Amjevita) launched earlier in 2023. 
 
In August 2022, The FDA approved Amjevita/Abrilada for the use in patients as young as 2 
years of age for polyarticular JIA and in those as young as 6 years of age for CD.  He went 
through all indications, precautions, dosing and formulations.   
 
In December 2022, the FDA approved Idacio, a biosimilar to Humira for the treatment of RA, 
JIA, PsA, AS, CD, UC and PSO.  He went through all indications, precautions, 
contraindications, dosing and formulations. 


--- Page 6 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 6 of 22 
 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Yusimry, a Humira biosimilar, as a pre-filled auto injector 
pen for the treatment of RA, JIA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, PS and HS.  He discussed the indications, 
precautions, contraindications, dosing and formulations. 
 
In March 2023, the FDA approved Hyrimoz, a citrate free Humira biosimilar, as a high-
concentration formulation for the treatment of RA, JIA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps and HS.  He 
discussed the available formulations as well as the indications, precautions, contraindications and 
dosing. 
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved Yuflyma, a biosimilar to Humira, for the treatment of RA, JIA, 
PsA, AS, CD, US, PsO and HS.  He discussed the indications, precautions, contraindications, 
dosing and formulations. 
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved Rinvoq for adults with moderately to severely active CD who 
have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more tumor necrosis factor blockers.  
He discussed the indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing and formulations.   
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved Cosentyx as a prefilled syringe or autoinjector pen.  He 
discussed the indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing and formulations.   
 
Roughly 75 percent is in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved that the drugs in the 
class were a therapeutic alternative. This was seconded by Dr. Ryan and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES, 
SECONDED BY DR.  RYAN. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNAMIMOUSLY. 
 
Proton Pump Inhibitors (Blue Class) 
 
Public comments for Proton Pump Inhibitors (Blue class) 
 
ALISA NGUYEN, specialist of medical affairs at Azurity Pharmaceuticals.  She presented 
konvomep which she believes delivers an unmet medical need particularly for patients who 
require omeprazole in liquid form that enables flexible dosing and does not require compounding 
or crushing.  It is the only FDA approved sodium bicarbonate dispensed as an oral liquid.  It is 
strawberry flavored and is compatible with nasal, gastric and orogastric tubes. It is indicated in 
adults for the treatment of active benign gastric ulcer and the reduction of risk of upper GI 
bleeding in critically ill patients.  Omeprazole is the only proton pump inhibitor that is combined 
with sodium bicarbonate and antacid to obtain faster absorption and suppress gastric acidity 
faster than delayed release tablets.  She discussed the trials that support the safety and efficacy of 
this drug.  She then discussed the importance of having a liquid medication.  For full prescribing 
and safety information she referred to the package insert. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on proton pump inhibitors.  He went over the 
disease state description and guidelines of proton pump inhibitors.  
 


--- Page 7 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 7 of 22 
 
In September 2022, the FDA approved konvomep oral suspension containing 2 mg omeprazole 
and 84 mg sodium bicarbonate per mL after reconstitution packaged as a kit containing 1 bottle 
of omeprazole and 1 bottle of strawberry flavored diluent containing sodium bicarbonate.  He 
discussed the indications, precautions, contraindications, dosing and formulations. 
 
Utilization was roughly 97 percent in line with the PDL. Previous motion, Dr. Carlson moved 
that the drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives.  Seconded by Dr. Begay-Bruno.  The 
motion passed unanimously.  
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THAT THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-B     Endocrine/Metabolic:  Antihyperuricemics (blue), Progestins for cachexia (green), 
Growth hormone (green), Androgenic Agents topical (green), Bone resorption inhibitors (blue), 
Glucagon agents (green), Hypoglycemic Metformin (green), hypoglycemics alpha-glucosidase 
(green), hypoglycemics, SGLT2 inhibitors (red), hypoglycemic Meglitinides (green), 
hypoglycemics thiazolidinedione (TZD) and combinations (green), hypoglycemics dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 inhb (DPP4) and combinations (green) and hypoglycemics glucagon like peptide-1 
(GLP-1) and combinations (blue) 
 
Antihyperuricemics (Blue class) 
 
Uman Patel gave the Magellan presentation on antihyperuricemics. Hyperuricemia can occur due 
to either an overproduction of uric acid, an underexcretion of uric acid or a combination of the 
two mechanisms.  He discussed the disease state description for gout as well as the treatment 
management of gout.   
 
In July 2022, labeling for pegloticase (Krystexxa) was updated to include details for 
coadministration of methotrexate in the treatment of chronic gout.  Pegloticase is indicated for 
the treatment of chronic gout in adult patient’s refractory to conventional therapy and labeling 
previously provided details for use only as monotherapy.  He gave the precautions, 
contraindications, dosing and formulations.   
 
Roughly 96 percent in line with PDL. Previous years motion Dr. Ryan moved the drugs in the 
class were therapeutic alternatives.  This was seconded by Dr. Phillips and passed unanimously.  
 
DR. PHILLIPS PROPOSED LAST YEARS MOTION.  SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
Progestins for Cachexia (Green Class)  
 
Umang Patel went directly to utilization due to this being a green class.  Roughly 96 percent 
were in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class effect.  Seconded by Dr. 
Phillips.  Motion passed unanimously. 
 


--- Page 8 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 8 of 22 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE SAME MOTION.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS. THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Growth Hormone (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel went directly to utilization given this is a green class.   
 
Utilization was a bit different with this class due to it being growth hormone.  He listed the 
actual prescription information for the committee to review.  Roughly 84 percent was in line with 
PDL. Previously Dr. Carlson moved a class effect, seconded by Dr. Phillips and passed 
unanimously.  
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Androgenic Agents, Topical (Green Class)  
 
Umang Patel again went directly to utilization given this is a green class. 
 
The PDL has shifted to almost all non-PDL.  This is largely due to generics in both this 
utilization and the one year utilization that the committee has access to.  The previous motion Dr. 
Ryan moved a class effect, seconded by Dr. Phillips.  Passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS AFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN. THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Bone Resorption Inhibitors (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on bone resorption inhibitors.  He gave the disease 
state description for osteoporosis.   
 
In 2023, the ACP published an update to the 2017 guidelines for the treatment of low bone mass 
and primary osteoporosis to prevent fractures in adults.  ACP recommends physicians offer 
bisphosphonates for initial treatment of postmenopausal women with primary osteoporosis to 
reduce the risk of fractures and men with primary osteoporosis.  Denosumab is suggested second 
line as an option in postmenopausal women or men with primary osteoporosis for whom 
bisphosphonates are not appropriate or who experience adverse effects with bisphosphonates.  In 
postmenopausal women with a very high risk of fracture ACP suggests romosozumab or 
teriparatide followed by a bisphosphonate. 
 
In 2022, the bone health and osteoporosis foundation recommended a treat to target approach to 
therapy that includes a specific bone mass density goal and no fractures.  A follow up bone 
density measure with a dual energy DEXA scan should be conducted after 1 year of initial 
therapy or change in therapy however intervals between scans may be extended once chronic 
treatment has been established.  The guidelines recognize all medications approved by the FDA 


--- Page 9 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 9 of 22 
 
for the prevention and/or treatment of osteoporosis at the time of publication as possible options.  
Umang went on to discuss the indication and use for each single or combination therapies.   
 
In December 2022, the FDA approved abaloparatide (Tymlos) for the use in men with 
osteoporosis at high risk for fracture defined as a history of osteoporosis fracture or multiple risk 
factors for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other osteoporosis therapies.  
He gave the indications, precautions, dosing and formulations.   
 
Roughly 95 percent in line with the PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved the drugs in the 
class were therapeutic alternatives.  Seconded by Dr. Phillips (unsure as the prior minutes are 
blurry).  Motion passed unanimously. 
. 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, WHICH WAS SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS. THE MOTION 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Glucagon Agents (Green Class)  
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presented glucagon agents.  Since this is a green class, he went 
directly into utilization. 
 
Utilization was roughly 98 percent in line with the PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a 
class effect to include nasal formulation, seconded by Dr. Phillips.  Motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE A NASAL FORMULATION, SECONDED BY DR. 
RYAN. THE MOTION PASSED UNAIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, Metformin (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics metformin. Again, this is a green 
class so he went right into utilization. 
 
Utilization was roughly 98 percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Carlson moved the 
drugs in the class were therapeutic alternative, seconded by Dr. Begay-Bruno.  Motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS OF THERAPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES, SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, Alpha-Glucosidase Inhibitors (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics alpha-glucosidase inhibitors.  
This is a green class so he went right to utilization. 
 


--- Page 10 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 10 of 22 
 
Utilization shows 100 percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved a class 
effect, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  Motion passed unanimously.   
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  
THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Dr. Semling stated that he feels for next year if the committee is okay with it they can remove 
this class allowing no preferred drug.  No discussion was had on this comment.  Hearing no 
discussion John Riley took a vote.  This passed unanimously.  
 
Hypoglycemia, SGLT2 Inhibitors (Red Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemia SGLT2 inhibitors.  He started 
with giving the disease state description of diabetes mellitus.   
 
In 2022, the AHA published a scientific statement on comprehensive management of CV risk 
factors for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.  In terms of drug therapy eight loss medications 
are discussed as adjuncts to diet, physical activity and behavioral therapy for certain patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a BMI greater than 27 kg/m².  The FDA approved drugs for 
weight management with CV safety and A1c lowering include orlistat, lorcaserin, liraglutide, 
naltrexone/bupropion sustained release and phentermine/topiramate.  Although long term CV 
event reduction has not been evaluated, notable CV risk reduction has been demonstrated for 
liraglutide at lower doses in patients with ASCVD or high CV risk.  Additionally, once weekly 
semaglutide 2.5 mg has also shown weight loss and CV risk factor improvement.  It is FDA 
approved for chronic weight management in adults with a BMI of 30 kg/m² or a BMI greater 
than 25 kg/m² with a comorbid condition.  The CV outcome trial data for newer 
antihyperglycemics agents is also reviewed.  Selection of diabetes agent should be individualized 
based on the patients’ risk and preferences.  Blood pressure management, lipid lowering and 
antithrombotic therapy are also addressed.   
 
In 2022, the ACC/AHA/HFS published guidelines for the management of heart failure.  SGLT2 
inhibitors were given a 2a recommendation in HF with mildly reduced ejection fraction with 
weaker recommendations (2b) in this population for other agents.  For HFpEF SGLT2 inhibitors 
received a 2a recommendation, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists a 2b recommendation and 
angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors a 2b recommendation. 
 
In 2023, the AACE updated their algorithm and separated the recommendation into complication 
centric algorithms and glucose algorithms.  They emphasized a comprehensive approach 
including individualized targets for weight loss, glucose, lipid and antihypertension management.  
They support an A1c target of less than 6.5 for most patients if it can be reached without 
substantial hypoglycemia or other adverse events.  Therapy choice is guided by comorbidity 
rather than by glycemic target.  In all cases, a drug that has proven CV benefit is recommended.  
For these patients’ metformin can also be initiated or continue to achieve glycemic targets.  In 
the glucose centric algorithm patients with who require glycemic control should begin with 
lifestyle therapy plus metformin if appropriate and additional therapies may be added to achieve 
A1c target based on individual lives and patient factors.  For those who are overweight, obese or 


--- Page 11 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 11 of 22 
 
at risk for hypoglycemia a GLP or dual GLP/GIP receptor agonist or SGLT2 inhibitor is 
preferred.  For patients with cost or access issues a TZD sulfonylurea or meglitinide is preferred.  
For patients with severe hyperglycemia basal insulin is preferred in combination with either 
prandial insulin or a GLP-1RA or dual GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist. 
 
In 2021, the ADA stated that in patients using ambulator glucose profile/glucose management 
indicator to assess glycemia, a parallel goal is a time in range of greater than 70 percent with 
time below range les than 4 percent.  During pregnancy, the ADA recommends, a target HbA1c 
of 6 – 6.5 percent is reasonable but can be adjusted based on hypoglycemia risk and more 
frequent monitoring may be required.  For diabetes technology an automated insulin delivery 
system should be considered in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus who have the skills to use the 
device in order to improve time in range and reduce A1c and hypoglycemia.  These systems may 
also be useful to improve glycemia in children.  Regarding obesity management, ADA states that 
lorcaserin should no longer be used as the FDA requested its market withdrawal.  For 
pharmacologic type 2 diabetes mellitus therapy the ADA advises to interrupt SGLT2 inhibitor 
therapy before scheduled surgery to avoid diabetic ketoacidosis, this alights with label revisions 
for SGLT2 inhibitors.  For management of CVD in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus the 
ADA advises to consider an SGLT2 inhibitor in patients with HF with reduced ejection fraction 
to reduce the risk of worsening HF and CV death. 
 
In 2023, the ADA standards of care in diabetes recommends initiation of pharmacologic therapy 
along with lifestyle change, at the time of diagnosis for children with type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
Metformin is recommended first line for asymptomatic children with an HbA1c of less than 8.5 
percent while those with marked hyperglycemia and an HbA1c greater than 8.5 percent should 
be initiated on metformin along with long acting insulin.  If HbA1c goals are not met with 
metformin (alone or combined with long acting insulin) the addition of a GLP-1RA approved for 
youth with type 2 diabetes mellitus should be considered in patients greater than 10 years of age.  
Patients who do not meet glycemic targets despite treatment with metformin, a GLP-1RA and 
long acting insulin should then be initiated on multiple daily insulin injections or an insulin 
pump.  The current ADA guidelines do not discuss the use of SGLT2 inhibitors in children with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
 
In January 2023, the FDA approved bexagliflozin or Brenzavvy, the SGLT2 inhibitor as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes.  He 
discussed the indications, precautions, dosing and formulations.   
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved dapagliflozin, Farxiga, as an expanded indication for 
dapagliflozin to reduce the risk of CV death, hospitalization for heart failure and urgent heart 
failure visit in adults with heart failure.  Previously it was indicated to reduce the risk of CV 
death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure with a reduced ejection 
fraction as NYHA class 224.  The other indications are as an adjunct to diet and exercise to 
improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes, to reduce the risk of hospitalization for 
heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes and either established CV disease or multiple CV risk 
factors and to reduce the risk of sustained GFR decline, end stage kidney disease, CV death and 
hospitalization for heart failure in adults with chronic kidney disease at risk of progression.  
There were no changes to the precautions, dosing or formulation. 


--- Page 12 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 12 of 22 
 
 
In May 2023, the FDA approved sotagliflozin, Inpefa, a dual SGLT1/SGLT2 inhibitor to reduce 
the risk of CV death, hospitalization for heart failure and urgent heart failure visits in adults with 
type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease and other CV risk factors.  He then discussed indications, 
precautions, dosing and formulations. 
 
In February 2023, a new indication for empagliflozin/metformin, Synjardy, has been added to 
state that the empagliflozin component is indicated to reduce the risk of CV death and 
hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure.  In June 2023 it was approved for an 
expanded indication as adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in pediatric 
patients greater than 10 years of age with type 2 diabetes mellitus.  It was previously only 
approved for use in adults.  Precautions and dosing are the same.  Formulations were changed 
and reviewed. 
 
In June 2023 Jardiance, empagliflozin, was approved for an expanded indication as adjunct to 
diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.  It was only previously approved for use in adults.  Indications, 
precautions, dosing and formulations were reviewed. 
 
Utilization was almost 98 percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved a class 
effect to include at least one medication that decreases cardiovascular risks and at least one that 
shows renal protective effect, seconded by Dr. Ryan.  Motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE 
MEDICATION THAT DECREASES CARDIOVASCULAR RISKS AND AT LEAST 
ONE THAT SHOWS RENAL PROTECTIVE EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN.  
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, meglitinides (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics meglitinides and since this is a 
green class he went right into utilization. 
 
Utilization is 100 percent NOT in line with PDL.  This was described as being because the pool 
of drugs is very small for this class.  Previous years motion Dr. Phillips moved a class effect.  
Seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  Motion passed unanimously.   
 
Charles Semling stated this is another class that he feels does not need to be managed anymore 
since there are only two drugs in the class.  After this meeting they should all be included instead 
of being reviewed.  No one was opposed to this. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, DR. DORAN-ATCHISON SECONDED 
THE MOTION. THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, Thiazolidinedione (TZD) and combinations (Green Class) 
 


--- Page 13 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 13 of 22 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics thiazolidinedione (TZD) and 
combinations.  This again is a green class so they went right into utilization. 
 
Utilization is approximately 99 percent in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a 
class effect. This was seconded by Dr. Carlson and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, DR. PHILLIPS SECONDED THAT. THE 
MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, DPP-4’s and combinations (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics DPP-4’s and combinations.  
This too was a green class so they went right into utilization. 
 
Utilization was approximately 87 percent in line with PDL. Previous motion, Dr. Phillips moved 
a class effect. Seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOTIONED A CLASS EFFECT, WAS SECONDED BY CASEY 
GOKEY. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Hypoglycemics, Glucagon-like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) and Combination (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on hypoglycemics, glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-
1) and combinations. 
 
October 2022, the FDA approved semaglutide, Ozempic, as a new presentation of the pen 
injector.  2 mg/3 mL (0.68mg/mL) that delivers 0.25 mg or 0.5mg per injection.  Previous 
approved presentations include single patient use pens 2 mg/1.5 mL (1.34 mg/mL) that delivers 
025 mg or 0.5 mg per injection, 4 mg/3 mL (1.34 mg/mL) that delivers 1 mg per injection and 8 
mg/3 mL (2.68 mg/mL) that delivers 2 mg per injection.  He reviewed the previous indications, 
precautions, dosing and formulations.   
 
January 2023, the FDA approved the updated labeling of semaglutide, Rybelsus, for 7 mg and 14 
mg tablets allowing use for first line treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults.  For 
Ozempic, Rybelsus and Wevogy the FDA released drug safety information regarding 
medications containing semaglutide marketed for type 2 diabetes or weight loss.  They received 
reports of compounded products using sodium and acetate salt, forms of semaglutide, which 
have different active ingredients from the approved semaglutide products.  The FDA advises 
patients should not use a compounded drug if an approved drug is available to treat a patient. 
 
In February 2023, Adlyxin, lixisenatide, was discontinued by Sanofi.  Product expiration is 
September 30, 2023.  No generics are available. 
 
Utilization was roughly 96 percent in line with PDL. Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a class 
effect to include at least one weekly injection product, seconded by Dr. Begay-Bruno and passed 
unanimously. 


--- Page 14 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 14 of 22 
 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE WEEKLY 
INJECTION PRODUCT AND ONE ORAL PRODUCT, SECONDED BY CASEY 
GOKEY.  THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Rapid Acting Insulin (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on rapid acting insulin.  
 
In October 2022, the indication for Lyumjev to improve glycemic control in diabetes was 
expanded to include pediatric patients.  No changes to precautions, dosing, formulations or 
indications. 
 
In June 2023, Fiasp was approved by the FDA as a 1.6 mL PumpCart cartridge for use in 
compatible insulin pumps.  No other changes. 
 
Utilization was roughly 92 percent in line with the PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Ryan moved a 
class effect, seconded by Dr. Phillips.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOTIONED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Regular Insulins (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on regular insulins.  This is a green class so they 
moved right into utilization. 
 
Utilization was about 100 percent NOT in line with PDL due to a very small overall denominator 
for prescriptions for this one. Previously Dr. Ryan moved a class effect. This was seconded by 
Dr. Begay-Bruno and passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN.  THE 
MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Intermediate Insulins (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on intermediate insulins.  Again, this is a green 
class so they moved directly to utilization. 
 
Utilization was 100 percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved a class effect, 
seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  
THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Rapid/Intermediate Acting Combination Insulins (Green Class) 


--- Page 15 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 15 of 22 
 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on rapid/intermediate acting combination insulins.  
This too was a green class so they moved into utilization. 
 
Utilization was 100 percent in line with PDL. Previously Dr. Ryan moved a class effect.  
Seconded by Dr. Begay-Bruno seconded and this passed unanimously. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. RYAN.  THE 
MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Regular/Intermediate Acting Combination Insulins (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on regular/intermediate acting combination 
insulins.  This is a green class so they went right into utilization. 
 
Utilization was approximately 80 percent in line with PDL. Previously Dr. Phillips moved a class 
effect. Dr. Doran-Atchison seconded and this passed unanimously. 
 
DR. DORAN-ATCHISON MOVED A CLASS EFFECT, SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  
THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Long Acting Insulins (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on long acting insulins. 
 
In November 2022, Rezvogler was approved by the FDA as the second biosimilar insulin 
product to Lantus.  It has all of the same dosing, indications, precautions and formulations.  
Indication is to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes and 
adults with type 2 diabetes similar to all insulins it is not recommended to treat diabetic 
ketoacidosis.   
 
Utilization was approximately 85 percent in line with PDL. Previously Dr. Ryan moved a class 
effect, seconded by Dr. Phillips and this passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED A CLASS EFFECT. DR. DORAN-ATCHISON SECONDED THAT 
MOTION. THE MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Continuous Glucose Monitors (Blue Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on continuous glucose monitors. 
 
Dexcom G7 Glucose Monitor was discussed including indications, sensor-site locations, glucose 
range, sensor and transmitter size, reader and features. 
 
There is no market basket because this falls under a different program called the Diabetic Supply 
Program therefore there is no utilization.  There was no utilization in 2022 either.  Previously Dr. 


--- Page 16 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 16 of 22 
 
Ryan moved the blood glucose meters in the class were therapeutic alternatives.  Seconded by 
Dr. Begay-Bruno.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE BLOOD GLUCOSE METERS IN THE CLASS WERE 
THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES.  SECONDED BY DR. PHILLIPS.  THE MOTION 
PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
Phosphate Binders (Green Class) 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on phosphate binders.  This is a green class so they 
went directly to utilization. 
 
Utilization is roughly 71 percent in line with PDL.  Previous motion Dr. Phillips moved the 
drugs in the class were therapeutic alternatives, seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison.  The motion 
passed unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS ARE THERPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES. DR. DORAN-ATCHISON SECONED THAT MOTION. THE 
MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
4-C    Antiretrovirals: HIV/AIDs (red) 
 
HIV/AIDs (Red Class) 
 
Public comments HIV/AIDs (Red class) 
 
NIRMAL GHUMAN, Pharmacist and Principal Scientific Account Lead with Janssen Scientific 
Affairs.  She wanted to take the time today to discuss Symtuza.  Symtuza is a once daily single 
tablet regimen indicated at a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV once infection in adults 
and pediatric patients who are treatment naïve or are virologically suppressed on a stable 
antiretroviral regimen for at least 6 months and have no darunavir or tenofovir resistance 
mutations.  She directed everyone to view the full prescribing information for complete 
information.  The Department of Health and Human Services recommends access to all classes 
of HIV medication.  Darunavir is the only PI that is DHHS recommended in certain clinical 
situations with an A1 level of evidence due to its high genetic barrier to resistance and better 
tolerability profile compared with other PIs.  A darunavir based regimen such as Symtuza is 
recommended for rapid initiation, patients with unknown resistance profiles, patients who may 
have adherence issues and patients who have received cabotegravir for PrEP.  Incomplete 
adherence to antiretroviral regimens is a critical factor contributing to treatment failure and the 
development of drug resistance.  Medicaid patients with suboptimal adherence to antiretroviral 
therapy have been shown to have a significantly higher total number of dates spent at the 
hospital, more long term care admissions and higher mean monthly medical costs compared to 
those with optimal adherence.  Single tablet regimens have been associated with better adherence 
when compared to multi tablet regimens.  In fact, a retrospective study found patients initiating 
Symtuza had higher adherence rates than those starting Prezcobix plus Descovy.  Some 
antiretrovirals have been associated with significant weight gain, especially in female, black and 


--- Page 17 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 17 of 22 
 
Hispanic patients which can lead to an increased incidence of cardiovascular disease or diabetes.  
In the two pivotal phase 3 trials patients on Symtuza gained, on average, less than or equal to 2 
kg over 96 weeks and no new cases of type 2 diabetes related to studies were ever reported.  Two 
retrospective studies assessed differences in weight and BMI changes among treatment naïve and 
treatment experienced adult patients following the initiation of Symtuza of Biktarvy.  In both 
studies greater weight and BMI increases were seen in patients receiving Biktarvy than in those 
receiving Symtuza.  Symtuza was also studied in a rapid initiation.  The DIAMOND trial was a 
phase 3 open label single arm study which assessed the efficacy and safety of Symtuza in newly 
diagnosed HIV-1 infected treatment naïve patients.  At week 48 in the intend to treat population 
92 of 109 or 84 percent of patients achieved HIV-1 RNA less than 50 copies per mL.  The most 
common adverse events were diarrhea, nausea, rash, vomiting and fatigue.  In summary, 
Symtuza provides high efficacy rates, a strong genetic barrier to resistance, a favorable 
tolerability profile, the convenience of a single tablet regimen and is recommended in the DHHS 
guidelines.  She thanked everyone for her time and informed them that she is available for any 
questions. 
 
STUART O’BROCHTA, Executive Medical Scientist at Gilead.  He wanted to discuss some of 
the clinical characteristics of Sunlenca or lenacapavir.  This is the newest antiretroviral for the 
treatment of people living with HIV who are heavily treatment experienced for HTE and failing 
their current regimen with multiclass resistance.  Sunlenca is the first in class capsid inhibitor 
approved for the treatment of people living with HIV who are HTE and multiclass ARV 
resistant.  Sunlenca is dosed as two subcutaneous injections administered only every 6 months, 
but in combination with an optimized background and OVR of antiretroviral regimens.  Sunlenca 
requires an oral lead in with 2 prescribing options to provide appropriate PK loading.  It is 
important to note that the HTE population in need of this new therapy is estimated to be close to 
1 percent of the people living with HIV.  While its small subset of the total US HIV population 
this is a significant unmet need since these patients have limited or no fully active antiretrovirals 
available to treat and suppress their HIV.  Thus, putting them at risk for significant risk for 
serious consequences from an uncontrolled HIV infection.  Sunlenca was approved based on the 
CAPELLA trial, the positive results of a randomized partially randomized placebo controlled 
double blind multicenter study in 72 patients living with HTE HIV.  The high level results 
demonstrated that 80 plus percent of virologic control was seen below 50 copies in the 52 week 
trial.  This result was also seen in the majority of patients that had no fully active ARVs in their 
optimized background regimen.  Sunlenca does have activity against broad spectrum of the 
known site specific mutations of the four major classes of antiretroviral regimens making it an 
ideal option for this HTE population.  Resistance was seen in 9 of the 72 patients but 4 had no 
fully active ARVs and the other 5 were not taking their regimen resulting in monotherapy.  From 
the safety highlight they had only one DC which was due to an injection site reaction.  The 
majority of AEs were mild to moderate with most being associated with ISRs.  Based on the 
strength and importance of this data he requested that Sunlenca be added to the Alaska PDL and 
available to this small but important subset of patients.  He referred to the Sunlenca package 
insert for complete safety and prescribing information.  He informed the panel that he is 
available for any questions. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on HIV/AIDS.  He started off with the overview of 
the disease state.  HIV is a complex disease that results in destruction of the immune system of 


--- Page 18 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 18 of 22 
 
the HIV infected individual.  There are two major subtypes of HIV, HIV-1 and HIV-2.  HIV-1 is 
most responsible for AIDS and is more common worldwide.  HIV-2 is less transmissible 
however both are known to cause AIDS and are transmitted by sexual contact, blood and from 
mother to child.  HIV-2 is more concentrated in West Africa.  HIV retrovirus establishes 
infection by killing the CD4+T cells that are crucial to a healthy immune system.  Without these 
CD4+T cells the immune system is vulnerable to infection.  It is estimated that there were 37.7 
million people living with HIV by the end of 2020 with 73 percent of adults and 54 percent of 
children receiving antiretroviral therapy globally.  It is estimated that 30,635 new HIV infections 
occurred in the US in 2020 which is an 8 percent decline since 2015.  It is estimated that 13 
percent of people in the US with HIV do not know their status.  In 2019 there were 15,815 deaths 
among people with diagnosed HIV in the US.  Of new infections, approximately 66 percent are 
from male to male sexual contact, 23 percent from heterosexual contact and 7 percent from 
injection drug use.  Minority groups in the US have been disproportionately affected by the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic.  The perinatal transmission rate of HIV from mother to child has decreased 
by more than 95 percent since the early 1990s.  A significant reason for the decrease in the US is 
routine testing of pregnant women during prenatal care and the provision of antiretrovirals 
during pregnancy and delivery.  Despite perinatal transmission being the primary means of 
childhood HIV infection, the risk can be reduced less than 1 percent if recommended 
preventative measures are followed.   
 
Next, he went on to discuss the treatment guidelines.  The Department of Health and Human 
Services in 2023 released guidelines stating that clinical trials have shown that using effective 
ART to consistently suppress plasma HIV RNA levels to less than 200 copies per mL prevents 
transmission of HIV to sexual partners.  Patients should use an alternative form of prevention 
with sexual partners for at least the first 6 months of treatment and until an HIV RNA level of 
less than 200 copies per mL have been documented.  They recommend that CD4 counts are 
measured every 3 – 6 months during the first 2 years of therapy.  Testing is then recommended 
every 12 months after 2 years.  Drug resistance testing is recommended at entry.  Guidelines also 
recommend mutation testing and notably patients should be screened for both Hepatitis B and 
Hepatitis C virus at entry into care as having the co-infection may impact the initiation of 
antiretroviral therapy. 
 
Continuing with guidelines, he discussed that some are over a year old but they are helpful in the 
overall picture of treatment.  He discussed the IAS 2020 guidelines.  He then discussed the 
DHHS guidelines from 2023.   
 
In December 2022, the FDA approved lenacapavir, Sunlenca, in combination with other 
antiretrovirals for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in heavily treatment experienced adults with 
multi drug resistant HIV-1 infection failing their current antiretroviral regimen due to resistance, 
intolerance or safety considerations.  He discussed the indication, warning and precautions, 
dosage and availability. 
 
Next, he went onto discuss discontinuations and those are as follows: 
 
August 2022 - Hepsera – generic versions are available. 
January 2023 - Trizivir – this is to cease on November 27, 2023. 


--- Page 19 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 19 of 22 
 
January 2023 – Tivicav – Distribution will cease for the 10 mg and 25 mg tablets as of January 1, 
2024; however, the 50 mg and PD 5 mg tablets will still be available. 
January 2023 – Selzentry – Discontinuation of 25 mg and 75 mg tablets as of January 1, 2024, 
though 150 mg and 300 mg tablets as well as oral solution will remain available. 
January 2023 – Lexiva – Lexiva will cease as of January 1, 2024. 
February 2023 – Norvir – The 80 mg/mL oral solution has been discontinued. 
 
In October 2022, the FDA approved the first generic to Janssen’s 800 mg Prezista tablet as 
darunavir.  It was approved as a 600 mg tablet strength. 
 
In June 2023, the indication for the use of Triumeq PD tablets for oral suspension in the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection was changed to include pediatric patients greater than 3 months of 
age and weighing greater than 6 kg.  He discussed the indications, warnings and precautions, 
dosage and availability. 
 
Utilization was approximately 99 percent in line with PDL. Previously Dr. Phillips moved that 
with the understanding that access would remain open, the drugs in the class were therapeutic 
alternatives to include at least one of the following inhibitor classes: Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase, Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase, Protease, and Integrase Transfer 
Inhibitors as well as at least one PrEP formulation and at least one pediatric approved product.  
This was seconded by Dr. Doran-Atchison and passed unanimously. 
 
Dr. Phillips proposed this year that there were many more classes but she started with the same 
understanding that the access and options should be as broad as they have been and include 
therapeutic alternative to include one PrEP formulation but if they can only have one PrEP 
formulation, she stated it should be Truvada over Descovy because it has both pre and post 
exposure prophylaxis and of course include a pediatric product.  To clarify she stated – 
Therapeutic options as long as it remains broad and open at least one PrEP formulation and one 
pediatric approved product. 
 
Charles Semling verified that both of the PrEP products are currently preferred and he does not 
see any changes with that. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED THAT ACCESS WOULD REMAIN OPEN THE DRUGS IN 
THE CLASS WERE THERAPEUTIC ALTERNATIVES TO INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE 
PREP FORMULATION AND ONE PEDIATRIC APPROVED PRODUCT, SECONDED 
BY DR. DORAN-ATCHISON.  THE MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.  
 
4-D   Single Class Reviews: Movement Disorders (blue) 
 
Movement Disorders (Blue Class) 
 
MANDEEP SOHUL, Pharmacist with Teva in Medical Affairs.  He is here to provide an update 
on Austedo XR, deutetrabenazine extended release tablet which were FDA approved and 
launched in May.  This is a new formulation of Austedo which is now available for patients.  
Austedo and Austedo XR and indicated for tardive dyskinesia and Huntington’s disease Chorea.  


--- Page 20 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 20 of 22 
 
While Austedo is dosed twice daily Austedo XR is dosed once daily.  It was developed based on 
patient and provider feedback and simplified the dosing schedule to once a day thereby reducing 
pill burden, plasma fluctuation and can be taken with or without food.  It is available at 6, 12 and 
24 mg tablets and provides a new option for patients.  He did note that the Austedo dose twice 
daily will still be commercially available.  Austedo XR was studied in three studies establishing 
bioequivalence, dose proportionality and food effect study indicating no effective food on 
Austedo XR.  The efficacy was established in three 12 week double blind randomized placebo 
controlled multi centered trials and a total of 505 patients.  Furthermore, acute three year long 
term open label extension studies showed no new safety signals and long term tolerability of 
Austedo.  He reminded the committee that while there is a boxed warning for depression and 
suicidality in HD it does not apply for TD.  It is only for HD where there is a high background 
rate of depression.  In summary, Austedo XR provides a new option for patients which is a once 
a day formulation with a reduced plasma fluctuation that may be administered with or without 
food.  He thanked the committee for including Austedo on the preferred drug list and he 
respectfully asked them to consider adding Austedo XR in the state of Alaska. 
 
RAY KONG, Manager Liaison at Newark and Bio Sciences Medical Affairs Department.  He is 
here today with a courtesy update on Ingrezza, valbenazine.  It has a newly improved expanded 
indication for the treatment of adults with chorea associated with Huntington’s disease in 
addition to the previously approved indication for tardive dyskinesia.  He went on to explain 
Huntington’s disease chorea and tardive dyskinesia.  Ingrezza is approved as a once daily oral 
medication that can be given with or without food at anytime throughout the day.  For HD the 
recommended dosing is to start at 40 mg once daily and increase in 20 mg increments every 2 
weeks to the recommended dosage of 80 mg once daily.  The safety and efficacy of Ingrezza was 
established in a phase 3 study known as CONNECT-HD.  It is a randomized double blind 
placebo controlled study evaluating once daily valbenazine in 128 HD patients with associated 
chorea.  Primary efficacy endpoint was a change in TMC score or total maximal chorea score 
between screening baseline to the maintenance period.  It met its primary endpoint at week 12 
and the improvement of TMC score was significantly greater with valbenazine versus placebo 
with a placebo adjusted mean reduction of 3.2 points.  Improvements in the TMC score with 
valbenazine were seen as early as week 2 and continued throughout the dose adjustment and 
maintenance periods.  There were no safety signals in the study for increased depression or 
suicidality in any dose groups.  Important safety information includes a new black box warning 
for the use of Ingrezza specifically in patients with HD.  The warning reads BMAT2 inhibitors 
including Ingrezza can increase the risk of depression and suicidal thoughts and behavior in 
patients with HD.  Ingrezza is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to 
valbenazine or any of its components.  Hypersensitivity including angioedema.  The most 
common reported adverse reactions were somnolence, fatigue and fall.  No dose adjustments are 
required for elderly patients or patients with renal impairment.  Ingrezza has been studied to be 
an effective once daily treatment for patients with HD associated chorea as well as tardive 
dyskinesia.  He requested that they put the new expanded indication to the current PDL policy.  
He is available for any questions. 
 
Umang Patel gave the Magellan presentation on movement disorders.  He started off with the 
disease state description and guidelines for Huntington’s disease chorea. 
 


--- Page 21 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 21 of 22 
 
In 2012, the AAN recommended tetrabenazine (up to 100 mg daily), amantadine or riluzole for 
chorea associated with HD.  Guidelines state that neuroleptics may be reasonable options given 
the behavioral concerns; reserpine and deutetrabenazine are not addressed in the AAN 
guidelines.  Guidelines advise that the decision by physicians and patients whether chorea 
requires pharmacologic treatment should consider matters such as mood disturbance, cognitive 
decline, drug adverse effects and polypharmacy risks.  These guidelines were reaffirmed in 2015. 
 
He then went onto discuss the disease state description for tardive dyskinesia. 
 
In 2020, the APA updated their guidelines for the treatment of schizophrenia.  They 
recommended routine assessment for TD in patients using antipsychotics.  They state that 
deutetrabenazine or valbenazine is preferred over tetrabenazine due to the data supporting their 
use.  Other factors should also be considered when selecting which agent is most appropriate for 
a specific patient. 
 
In April 2021, the FDA approved a new formulation of deutetrabenazine once daily XR 
formulation in 6 mg, 12, mg and 24 mg tablets for the treatment of chorea associated with 
Huntington’s disease and tardive dyskinesia.  He discussed the indications, warnings, dosage and 
availability. 
 
Utilization was roughly 93 percent in line with PDL. Previously Dr. Phillips moved the drugs in 
the class were therapeutic alternatives. Dr. Doran-Atchison seconded and this passed 
unanimously. 
 
DR. RYAN MOVED THE DRUGS IN THE CLASS ARE THERPEUTIC 
ALTERNATIVES. DR. DORAN-ATCHISON SECONED THAT MOTION. THE 
MOTION WAS PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. 
 
 
5.  
End of Public Meeting 
 
6. 
Review Minutes from April 2023 meeting 
 
There were no changes to the meeting minutes from April 2023. 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED TO APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 2023. 
SECONDED BY CASEY GOKEY. THE MOTION WAS PASSED BY ALL MEMBERS. 
 
7. 
Comments From Committee Members 
 
Charles Semling had a comment to state that due to the work they are doing they were able to 
save the state about 30 million dollars this past year. 
 
8. 
Adjourn 
 


--- Page 22 ---
Alaska Pharmacy and Therapeutics Meeting 
September 15, 2023 
Page 22 of 22 
 
DR. PHILLIPS MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING. THE NEXT MEETING WAS 
SCHEDULE FOR NOVEMBER 17, 2023. WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE MEETING 
WAS ADJOURNED.\n