

===== PAGE 1 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report 
Tovorafenib 
Version 1.0
Endorsed by the Coordination Group pursuant to Article 12(2) of Regulation (EU) 2021/2282 
on 30 April 2026 
Date of the procedural review by the European Commission pursuant to Article 28, point (d), 
of Regulation (EU) 2021/2282: 19 May 2026 
This document has been produced and endorsed by the Member State Coordination Group 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/2282 on health technology assessment and financed by 
the European Commission under the framework contract FWC HADEA/2024/OP/0031. The 
European Commission performed a procedural review pursuant to Article 28, point (d), of 
Regulation (EU) 2021/2282. The joint clinical assessment is the responsibility of the Member 
State Coordination Group, and not of the European Commission or the European Health and 
Digital Executive Agency (HADEA).  


===== PAGE 14 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
14 
Table 5: Deviations from JSC propositions for evidence generation 
Deviation from evidence generation proposition in 
JSC 
Explanation 
Not applicable 
– 
Requests for additional information 
The following table provides information on the assessors’ requests for additional information 
from the HTD. The requests and the responses to those requests by the HTD, together with 
their assessment, are available in Appendix D. 
Table 6: Requests for additional information 
Date of request 
Date of response 
New dossier version 
submitted [yes/no] 
Request 1 
14 Nov 2025 
21 Nov 2025 
no 
Request 2 
28 Nov 2025 
05 Dec 2025 
yes 
Factual accuracy check by the HTD 
According to the HTAR, a factual accuracy check was performed by the HTD. The outcome 
of this step including the assessors’ feedback is provided in a separate document 
“Annex_Comments_JCA-MP-2024-06_tovorafenib”. 
The JCA report is based on information submitted by the HTD in the latest version of 
the dossier and as a response to the additional information requests from the assessors. The 
HTD is responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the submitted dossier. Information provided 
by the HTD in the dossier, that was identified by the HTD as incorrect only during the factual 
accuracy check, was therefore not acted on in the report. The nature of the incorrect 
information is such that there is no effect on the estimates of relative effectiveness and 
safety, and there is no meaningful impact on the associated uncertainties identified in the 
JCA. The information can be found in the document “Annex_Comments_JCA-
MP-2024-06_tovorafenib”. 


===== PAGE 15 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
15 
2 
Background 
2.1 
Overview of the medical condition 
This section shall provide: 
— 
a summary of the medical condition, including the symptoms and the burden and 
natural progression of the medical condition, its prevalence or incidence in the EEA 
States in which the HTAR is applicable, as available, 
— 
a brief description of the target patient population and its characteristics reflected in 
the assessment scope as set out pursuant to Article 8(6) of the HTAR, 
— 
a brief description of the care pathway for the medical condition and whether it varies 
substantially between the EEA States in which the HTAR is applicable, as well as, if 
relevant, for different stages and/or subtypes or sub-populations of the medical 
condition. 
Paediatric low-grade gliomas (LGG) form a heterogeneous group of grade 1 and 2 tumours 
(classified according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria). In general, these tumours 
have a favourable prognosis with a 10-year overall survival between 85% and 96% [1]. Based 
on data from the US, paediatric LGGs account for an estimated 30% of all childhood brain 
tumours [2]. 
The development of paediatric LGGs is mainly determined by the presence of genetic 
alterations, such as the v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homologue B (BRAF) V600E 
mutation and KIAA1549-BRAF fusion, as well as other molecular alterations [2]. There are few 
published data on the incidence and prevalence of BRAF-altered paediatric LGG in Europe. In 
the population aged 0 to 19 years, the incidence of BRAF-altered paediatric LGG was estimated 
by the HTD to be 0.33 per 100,000 individuals in the EU member states [3]. 
Although overall survival (OS) is generally favourable, patients with paediatric LGG suffer from 
a significant clinical disease burden that correlates with the location of the tumour in the brain 
[1,4]. Tumour-related morbidities include seizures, hemiparesis, focal neurological findings, 
behavioural changes, visual disturbances, cognitive dysfunction and endocrine dysfunction 
[5]. Radiographic tumour response assessment plays a crucial role in managing patients with 
central nervous system tumours. Since 2010, different sets of standardised criteria were 
developed: Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) high-grade glioma (HGG), 
RANO-LGG and Response Assessment in Paediatric Neuro-Oncology (RAPNO) (see Section 
4.2.1). 
The target patient group according to the full claimed indication for this JCA consists of 
patients aged 6 months and older with paediatric LGG harbouring a BRAF fusion or 
rearrangement or BRAF V600 mutation, who have received one or more prior systemic 
therapies. 


===== PAGE 21 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
21 
Table 11: Assessment scope table of outcomes 
Outcome 
Notes 
Relative effect estimates are required for the following outcomes: 
Safety outcomes according to the Guidance on 
outcomes for JCA  
- 
Overall survival (OS)  
- 
Progression-free survival (PFS) 
PFS should be defined as a time-to-event outcome. 
Rates of PFS at 6- and 12-months (binary outcomes) 
are also requested. This outcome should be included 
with 'progression' defined according to both RAPNO 
and RANO criteria, wherever these data are available 
for both intervention and comparator in a given 
comparison. 
Objective response, a composite outcome including 
complete response and partial response.  
This outcome should be included with 'response' 
defined according to both RAPNO and RANO criteria, 
wherever these data are available for both 
intervention and comparator in a given comparison.  
Health-related quality of life (HrQoL), generic  
Measured preferably as PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core 
Scales and/or SF-36 (generic questionnaires).  
Health-related quality of life (HrQoL), disease-specific  Measured preferably as PedsQL 3.0 Cancer Module 
and/or EORTC QLQ-C30 (disease-specific 
questionnaires).  
Symptoms of the disease, including all of the 
following: symptoms concerning neurological 
function; impaired vision, balance, and hearing; motor 
function; epileptic seizures; severe haemorrhagic 
events; general and cognitive fatigue.  
Measured preferably by a validated instrument. 
Symptomatic disease control: a composite outcome, 
preferably comprising stable symptoms and improved 
symptoms. 
- 
Composite outcome comprising of complete 
response, partial response, or stable disease lasting a 
minimum of (i) 6 and (ii) 12 months.  
This outcome should be included with 'response' and 
'stable disease' defined according to both RAPNO and 
RANO criteria, provided these data are available for 
both intervention and comparator in a given 
comparison.  
General and cognitive fatigue 
Measured by an instrument that can be used to 
generate QALY-weights. Only required as a separate 
outcome if fatigue is *not* included within the 
instrument(s) used to measure symptoms of the 
disease and/or quality of life.  


===== PAGE 23 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
23 
(BRAF V600E mutation in patients >1 year), and PICOs 7 and 8 for Population 3 (BRAF fusion, 
rearrangement or V600 [non-E] mutation). 
The HTD provides evidence informing PICOs 5 and 7 and argues that PICOs 1 to 4, 6 and 8 
could not be addressed due to the unavailability of data for the specified comparators in the 
target population. Thus, no comparative effectiveness or safety analyses were provided in the 
dossier for PICOs 1 to 4, 6 and 8. 
PICOs with comparator data 
For PICO 5 (subpopulation of patients > 1 year of age with BRAF V600E mutation), the HTD 
provides an unanchored matching-adjusted indirect comparison (MAIC) of tovorafenib with 
the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib. 
For PICO 7 (subpopulation of patients with BRAF fusion, rearrangement or a V600 (non-E) 
mutation), the HTD provides an unanchored MAIC of tovorafenib with trametinib. These data 
are not included in the JCA report due to insufficient information being available for the 
assessment of the study on the comparator (see Section 4.1.1 for details). 
PICOs without comparator data 
For PICOs 1, 2, 6 and 8 with an individualised treatment comparator, the HTD describes that 
no studies were identified in the relapsed/refractory (R/R), paediatric LGG BRAF-altered 
population that included all the treatments comprising the individualised treatment. The HTD 
concludes that the lack of such comparator data in the target population precludes the 
possibility of performing a comparison with tovorafenib for these PICOs. 
The HTD did not aim to include studies with an individualised treatment comparator which 
did not consider all of the treatment options. The HTD's approach to include studies with an 
individualised treatment comparator, only if the comparator included all treatment options, 
is not adequate. If comparator data that include only a selection of the requested treatment 
options had been identified and submitted, the suitability of these data to address the 
relevant PICOs would then have been a matter of assessment (see [8] for further information). 
The availability of data on only a relevant selection of treatment options in the comparator 
study may result in the description of effects only for a subpopulation of the original 
population of the PICO. However, the assessors did not identify studies on a relevant selection 
of treatment options for PICOs 1, 2, 6 and 8 (see Section 4.1 for details). 
For PICOs 3 and 4, the HTD describes that no studies were identified in the R/R, paediatric LGG 
BRAF-altered population that investigated treatment with the combination of carboplatin and 
vincristine or with vinblastine. 


===== PAGE 24 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
24 
For the PICOs with a lack of published data on the comparator (PICOs 1 to 4, 6 and 8), the HTD 
described an attempt to construct external control arms using patient data acquired outside 
of clinical studies to allow comparative effectiveness analyses. The HTD performed a feasibility 
study to identify suitable data sources to construct the external control arms. According to 
the HTD, one US database initially demonstrated feasibility for use but was deemed unsuitable 
due to an insufficient number of patients with BRAF alterations and adequate follow-up in the 
R/R setting. The HTD concluded that finding a fit-for-purpose and reliable comparator data 
source was not possible. Details on the feasibility study are presented by the HTD in Appendix 
D.5.2 of the dossier. 
For each of the populations defined in the assessment scope, the HTD provides single-arm 
descriptive outcomes on treatment with tovorafenib from the pivotal study. These data are 
not discussed in the JCA report because they do not provide information on the relative effects 
of the medicinal product under assessment against the comparators defined in the 
assessment scope. 
For a list of studies included in the current assessment for results on relative effectiveness or 
safety, see Section 4.1. 


===== PAGE 25 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
25 
4 
Results 
The results presented in this section shall follow international standards of evidence-based 
medicine and take into account, if available, the methodological guidance adopted by the 
HTACG pursuant to Article 3(7), point (d), of the HTAR. Any deviations shall be described and 
justified. 
The results section provides the findings of the systematic information retrieval, characterises 
the included studies and presents the results on relative effectiveness and relative safety of 
the medicinal product under assessment versus the comparators defined in the PICO 
question(s). Factors which may affect the certainty of the relative effects are identified, taking 
into account the strengths and limitations of the available evidence. 
4.1 
Information retrieval 
This section shall include: 
— 
a description of the information retrieval performed by the HTD, 
— 
an assessment of the appropriateness of the sources and the search strategies of the 
HTD. 
It shall provide the date of the list of the studies, performed or sponsored by the HTD or by 
third parties, referred to in Annex I, point (b), of the HTAR, as well as the date of the last 
searches for the medicinal product and the comparator(s) in bibliographic databases and in 
study registries and study results registries (clinical trial databases). 
Detailed information shall be provided in Appendix B. 
The assessment of the appropriateness of the sources and the search strategies demonstrates 
some deficiencies further detailed in Appendix B. 
The studies included in the assessment were compiled using the following information: 
Sources provided by the HTD in the dossier: 
 
list of HTD-sponsored studies on tovorafenib (no status date reported by the HTD), 
 
bibliographic search for tovorafenib and comparators (last search on 14 July 2025), 
 
search in study registries/study result databases for tovorafenib and comparators (last 
search on 14 October 2025), 
 
search for HTA reports for tovorafenib and comparators (last search on 25 July 2025), 
 
submission files to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for tovorafenib (no date 
reported by the HTD), 
 
search in patient registries for paediatric LGG (last search on 25 July 2025). 


===== PAGE 26 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
26 
In their own searches, the assessors did not identify additional studies (see Appendix B). 
Consistent with the findings of the HTD, neither randomised, controlled trials (RCTs) with a 
direct comparison of the intervention versus PICO comparators nor studies enabling an 
anchored indirect comparison of the intervention with PICO comparators via a common 
comparator were identified by the assessors for any of the PICOs. Thus, studies with either 
the intervention or comparators for unanchored indirect comparisons were selected. Through 
this process, the HTD and the assessors identified the following 3 studies: 
 
the pivotal study on monotherapy with tovorafenib (FIREFLY-1) 
 
the study by Bouffet et al. 2023 on the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib 
(hereinafter referred to as dabrafenib + trametinib) 
 
the TRAM-01 study on monotherapy with trametinib 
The 3 studies are referred to as FIREFLY-1, Bouffet 2023 and TRAM-01 in the following text. In 
the dossier, the HTD provides data from these studies for the different populations according 
to the assessment scope as described below.  
No additional relevant study was identified through the review of completeness for any of the 
PICOs. However, a number of additional issues relating to information retrieval and study 
selection were identified. These are described in detail in Appendix B. 
The relevance of the studies identified in the information retrieval process for the JCA is 
described in the following section. 
4.1.1 Resulting list of included studies overall and by PICO 
This section shall provide in tabular format:  
— 
an overview of all included studies and the associated references for these studies 
overall and by PICO, 
— 
the list of studies included by the HTD which were excluded within the assessment, 
with a justification for their exclusion. 
The following table lists the studies included in the assessment and the available 
documentation and identifies which studies are relevant for each of the PICO questions of the 
assessment. 


===== PAGE 27 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
27 
Table 13: Included studies – list of relevant studies by PICO question 
Study reference/ID 
Study type 
Study interventions 
Study for 
marketing 
authorisation 
Sponsoreda or third-
party study of the 
medicinal product 
under assessment 
Available documentation in the 
submission dossier 
Population 1 (full claimed indication): PICOs 1, 2, 3, 4 
No evidence informing PICOs included 
Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation in patients > 1 year): PICO 5  
Studies providing indirect evidence: tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + trametinib 
DAY101-001/PNOC026 
(FIREFLY-1b) 
Non-randomised, non-
comparative, open-label, 
multi-centre, multi-arm 
study 
Assessed intervention: 
tovorafenib 
yesc 
sponsoredd 
 CSRe: [9] 
 Registry entry:  
 Clinicaltrials.gov: 
NCT04775485 [10] 
 EudraCT: 2020-003657-30 [11] 
 Publication or other reference:  
 Kilburn et al., 2024 [12] 
CTMT212X2101 (Bouffet 
2023b) 
Non-randomised, non-
comparative, open-label, 
multi-centre, multi-arm 
study 
Assessed intervention: 
dabrafenib + trametinib  
no 
not sponsored 
 CSR:  ̶ 
 Registry entry:  
 Clinicaltrials.gov: 
NCT02124772 [13] 
 EudraCT: 2013-003596-35 [14] 
 Publication or other reference:  
 Bouffet 2023f [15] 
Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation in patients > 1 year): PICOs 6 
No evidence informing PICO included 
Population 3 (BRAF fusion, rearrangement, or V600 [non-E] mutation): PICO 7, 8 
No evidence informing PICOs includedg 
a: Study sponsored by the HTD or in which the HTD participated financially in some other way. 
b: In the following tables, the study is referred to in this abbreviated form. 
c: FIREFLY-1 is the pivotal study for the EMA marketing authorisation that is related to this JCA. 
d: FIREFLY-1 was sponsored by Day One Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 
e: The 2-year data cut for FIREFLY-1 (used in this submission) is available from the CSR; a post-hoc analysis 
based on this data cut was presented at ASCO 2025 [16]. 
f: Bouffet 2023 is a multi-arm study that included several study parts and cohorts of patients. The 
combination of dabrafenib and trametinib and trametinib monotherapy were each assessed in two of 
these parts. Some efficacy analyses presented in the manuscript were performed on regrouped patient 
cohorts based on the interventions received. 
g: Results informing PICO 7 submitted by the HTD are not included in the JCA report due to insufficient 
information available for the assessment of the study on the comparator (see subsequent text for details) 
ASCO: American Society of Clinical Oncology; CSR: clinical study report; EMA: European Medicines Agency; 
EudraCT: European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials Database; HTD: health technology 
developer; ID: identification; JCA: Joint Clinical Assessment; NCT: National Clinical Trial 
 
The following table lists studies that were included by the HTD in the submission dossier but 
are not included in the assessment. 


===== PAGE 28 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
28 
Table 14: List of excluded studies – studies included by the HTD but not used in the 
assessment 
Study reference/ID 
Reason for exclusion 
TRAM-01 [17-20] 
Insufficient information available to assess study methods and results (see 
subsequent text for details) 
 
For the subpopulation of patients with a BRAF fusion, rearrangement or V600 (non-E) 
mutation (Population 3), the HTD provides an unanchored MAIC of tovorafenib with 
trametinib (PICO 7). For tovorafenib, this unanchored MAIC is based on a subpopulation from 
FIREFLY-1; for trametinib, it is based on results of TRAM-01. For this study, a design publication 
[17] and abstracts reporting results on 2 different data cut-offs are available (Perreault 2021: 
12 February 2021 [19], Perreault 2022: 31 January 2022 [18]). Thus, the reported results for 
this study are based on abstracts only. The comparison based on FIREFLY-1 and TRAM-01 is 
not included in the JCA report due to insufficient information available for the assessment of 
TRAM-01. 
For studies to be included in the JCA, sufficient documentation is required to allow for the 
assessment of the study methods and results. Therefore, studies for which only limited 
summary data are available (e.g., from a conference abstract, presentation or poster) should 
be excluded [21]. Contrary to this, the HTD describes in Section 4.1 of the dossier that it was 
decided to include results of studies presented only in conference abstracts in the HTD’s 
assessment due to the rarity of the disease and the paucity of evidence. Regardless of the 
rarity of the disease, the information on the reported results of TRAM-01 is not sufficient to 
include the study in the JCA report. In particular, it is unclear whether the results presented in 
the abstracts were generated using the methods reported in the design publication. 
In addition, the information on patient characteristics is insufficient to show that the reported 
results refer to the subpopulation of patients within the scope of PICO 7 (i.e., patients with a 
BRAF fusion, rearrangement or V600 [non-E] mutation). For the data cut-off of 31 January 
2022 included in the HTD’s assessment, age is the only patient characteristic reported and 
therefore the only variable for which adjustment was possible. For this reason, including the 
results in an unanchored MAIC of tovorafenib with trametinib for PICO 7 is also not 
appropriate. Thus, the information on patient characteristics is also considered insufficient for 
inclusion, irrespective of the source document reporting the results. 
PICOs without comparator data 
For Population 1 (PICOs 1 to 4), Population 2 (PICO 6) and Population 3 (PICO 8), the HTD 
provides single-arm descriptive outcomes on treatment with tovorafenib from the pivotal 
study FIREFLY-1. As described in Section 3, these data are not discussed in the JCA report. 


===== PAGE 30 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
30 
Table 15: Characteristics of the included studies 
Study reference/ID 
Study type and 
design 
Study population 
Study arms  
(number of randomised/ 
included patients) 
Study duration, data cut-off(s) and 
locations 
Study endpointsa 
FIREFLY-1  
Phase 2, non-
randomised, 
non-
comparative, 
open-label, 
multi-centre, 
multi-arm study 
Arm 1 (pivotal, LGG) 
Patients aged 6 months 
to 25 years, inclusive, 
with R/Rb LGG 
harbouring an activating 
BRAF alteration, 
including BRAF V600 
mutations and 
KIAA1549:BRAF fusions. 
Arm 2 (expansion 
cohort, LGG) 
Patients aged 6 months 
to 25 years, inclusive, 
with R/Rb LGG 
harbouring an activating 
or expected to be 
activating RAF alteration 
(e.g., BRAF or 
CRAF/RAF1 fusion or 
BRAF V600 mutations). 
Arm 3c (advanced solid 
tumour) 
Patients aged 6 months 
to 25 years, inclusive, 
with advanced solid 
tumours harbouring an 
activating or expected 
to be activating RAF 
fusion. 
Arm 1 
 Tovorafenib 
monotherapy: N = 77 
Arm 2 
 Tovorafenib 
monotherapy: N = 60  
Arm 3c 
 Tovorafenib 
monotherapy: N = 6 
Study duration: 
 Screening: 4 weeks 
 Treatment & follow-up:  
Ongoing: Patients in Arms 1 and 2 
entered a 36-month long-term 
extension phase after the last 
patient enrolled in Arm 1 
completed 26 cycles of treatmentd. 
Period of study: 
 4/2021 – ongoing (estimated 
completion: 5/2027)  
Data cut-offse:  
 Primary (9-month data cut-off): 22 
Dec 2022  
 15-month data cut-off: 5 June 
2023 (reported in Kilburn et al., 
2024 [12]) 
 2-year data cut-off: 10 May 2024 
 3-year data cut-off: 21 May 2025 
 Final analysis: Expected Q2 2027  
Locations: 
 32 centres  
 Asia: 6 
 North America: 14  
 Europe: 7 
 Oceania: 5 
Primary: 
 Arm 1: ORR  
 Arm 2: Safety and 
tolerability, including 
evaluation of AEs and 
laboratory abnormalities 
Key secondary/otherf: 
 Arm 1: Safety and 
tolerability, including 
evaluation of AEs and 
laboratory abnormalities 
 Arm 2: ORR 
 PFS 
 DOR 
 TTR 
 Composite outcome 
comprising CR, PR or SD  
 OS 
 Visual acuity (as measured 
using BCVA) 
 HRQoL (PedsQL Core 
Generic Scales, PedsQL 
Cancer Module, PROMIS) 


===== PAGE 31 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
31 
Study reference/ID 
Study type and 
design 
Study population 
Study arms  
(number of randomised/ 
included patients) 
Study duration, data cut-off(s) and 
locations 
Study endpointsa 
Bouffet 2023 
Phase 1/2, non-
randomised, 
non-
comparative, 
open-label, 
multi-centre, 
multi-arm study  
Part A 
Children and 
adolescents (aged ≥ 1 
month to < 18 years) 
with R/Rg histologically 
confirmed solid tumours 
Part B 
Children and 
adolescents (aged ≥ 1 
month to < 18 years) 
with the following R/Rg 
tumours: 
 Histologically 
confirmed 
neuroblastoma with 
MAPK/RAS/MEK 
pathway activation 
 Gliomas or primary 
brain tumours with 
BRAF 
fusion/duplication or 
NF-1 gliomas not 
eligible for the NF-1 
with PN cohort 
 NF-1 patients with 
progressive or morbid 
PN that is not suitable 
for resection 
 BRAF V600-mutant 
solid tumours  
Part A 
 Trametinib 
monotherapy): N = 50 
Part B 
 Trametinib 
monotherapy: N = 41 
Part C 
 Dabrafenib + 
trametinib: N = 18 
Part D 
 Dabrafenib + 
trametinib: N = 30 
Total (all tumours): 
 Trametinib 
monotherapy: N = 91 
 Dabrafenib + 
trametinib: N = 48 
Total (BRAF V600E-
mutant LGG only): 
 Trametinib 
monotherapy: N = 13 
 Dabrafenib + 
trametinib: N = 36h  
Study duration: 
 Screening: 14 days  
 Treatment: until disease 
progression, death or 
unacceptable toxicityi 
 Follow-up: ongoing in a separate 
long-term extension studyj  
Period of study: 
1/2015–12/2020  
Data cut-off: 
Not reported 
Location: 
 16 study centres  
 Europe: 4 
 North America: 11  
 Australia: 1  
Primary: 
 Safety and tolerability, 
including evaluation of AEs 
and laboratory 
abnormalities, to 
determine the trametinib 
dose for paediatric 
patients achieving similar 
exposure to the 
recommended adult dose 
Key secondary/otherf: 
 Safety and tolerability, 
including evaluation of AEs 
and laboratory 
abnormalities, to 
determine the dabrafenib 
dose for paediatric 
patients achieving similar 
exposure to the 
recommended adult dose 
 ORRk 
 Composite outcome 
comprising CR, PR or SDk 
 PFSk 
 DORk 
 BORk 


===== PAGE 43 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
43 
periods from FIREFLY-1 for the relevant subpopulation for PICO 5 are reported in 
Appendix C.1. 
Table 18: Information on the course of included studies – actual treatment duration and 
observation periods 
Study reference/IDa 
Outcome category 
FIREFLY-1b  
Bouffet 2023 
Intervention 
Tovorafenib 
N = 77 (Arm 1) 
Tovorafenib 
N = 137 (Arm 1 + 2) 
Dabrafenib + 
trametinib  
N = 36 
Treatment duration [days/months] 
Median [min; max] 
722.0 [22; 975] days 
638.0 [22; 975] days 24 (range: 2.1 -52.5) 
months 
Mean (SD) 
581.0 (259.31) days 
559.0 (235.25) days 
NR 
Study observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
28.1 [1.1; 36.5] 
24.4 [1.1; 36.5] 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
27.45 (6.79) 
24.49 (6.49) 
NR 
OS observation period [months]c 
Median [min; max] 
27.8c [1.1; 36.2] 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
27.15c (6.11) 
NR 
NR 
PFS observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
22.34d [16.53; 25.07] 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
NR 
NR 
NR 
ORR observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
NR 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
NR 
NR 
NR 
Safety observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
28.1 [1.1; 36.5] 
24.4 [1.1; 36.5] 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
27.45 (6.79) 
24.49 (6.49) 
NR 
a: Only outcomes with the requested information available for at least one included study are presented in 
the dossier. 
b: Efficacy analyses were conducted for Arm 1 and safety and HRQoL analyses were conducted for Arm 1 + 
Arm 2. 
c: There is no information available on how the observation period was calculated. 
d: Median PFS/OS follow-up time only reported for the Full Analysis Set, N = 69. 
ID: identification; max: maximum; min: minimum; NR: not reported; ORR: overall response rate; OS: overall 
survival; PFS: progression-free survival; SD: standard deviation 
 
In both studies, the patients were treated for a similar duration of about 2 years. Information 
on observation periods is available for FIREFLY-1 only.  


===== PAGE 49 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
49 
4.3.2.1 Patient characteristics 
This section shall present patient characteristics from all studies covering the relevant patient 
population included in any of PICO(s) addressing this patient population. 
A summary of baseline characteristics for the included studies, prior to any statistical 
adjustments made for the purposes of evidence synthesis, is shown in Table 21. Standardised 
differences for the characteristics were not reported in the dossier and therefore not included 
in Table 21. 
Table 21: Patient baseline characteristics for Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation in patients 
> 1 year) 
Study reference/ID 
Characteristics 
Category 
FIREFLY-1 
tovorafenib  
Bouffet 2023 
dabrafenib and 
trametinib 
RANO-LGG 
evaluable seta 
RANO-HGG 
evaluable setb 
Safety analysis 
setc 
Efficacy and 
safety analysis 
setd 
Unadjusted 
Unadjusted 
Unadjusted 
Unadjusted 
N = 12 
N = 10 
N = 22 
N = 36 
Age [years], Median 
8.2 
9.9 
10 
10 
Age group, n (%) 
 
 
  
 
< 2 years 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
NR 
1 (2.8) 
2 years to < 6 years  
2 (16.7)  
2 (20.0)  
3 (13.6)  
7 (19.4) 
6 years to < 12 years  
7 (58.3)  
5 (50.0)  
11 (50.0)  
12 (33.3) 
12 years to < 16 years  
2 (16.7)  
2 (20.0)  
5 (22.7)  
16 (44.4)e 
16 years to ≤ 25 years  
1 (8.3)  
1 (10.0)  
2 (9.1)  
NR 
Sex, n (%) 
 
  
  
 
Male  
5 (41.7)  
3 (30.0)  
11 (50)  
18 (50)  
Female  
7 (58.3)  
7 (70.0)  
11 (50)  
18 (50)  
Race, n (%) 
 
 
 
 
Asian  
1 (8.3)  
1 (10.0)  
3 (13.6)  
NR 
White  
6 (50.0)  
4 (40.0)  
11 (50.0)  
NR 
Other  
1 (8.4)  
1 (10.0)  
1 (4.5)  
NR 
Not reported  
4 (33.3)  
4 (40.0)  
7 (31.8) 
NR 
Ethnicity, n (%) 
 
 
 
 
Not Hispanic or Latino  
7 (58.3)  
5 (50.0)  
14 (63.6)  
NR 
Not stated  
4 (33.3)  
4 (40.0)  
7 (31.8)  
NR 
Missing  
1 (8.4)  
1 (10.0)  
1 (4.5)  
NR 
Height percentile at baselinef, mean 
(SD) 
46.3 (32.7)  
45.1 (28.3)  
44.5 (35.2) 
NR 


===== PAGE 52 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
52 
The proportion of patients who received prior systemic therapy differs across the studies, 
whereby 100% of patients in FIREFLY-1 received prior systemic therapy compared with 91.7% 
of patients in the Bouffet 2023 study. Prior treatment including “small molecule-targeted 
therapy” was received by four patients (11.1%) in the Bouffet 2023 study. Patients previously 
treated with prior BRAF inhibitor (except for sorafenib) were only permitted to enrol in Parts 
C and D of the Bouffet 2023 study if they had prior benefit as determined by the investigator. 
No such restriction was imposed on patients receiving tovorafenib in FIREFLY-1. The 
proportion of patients in Population 2 receiving prior BRAF inhibitor in the FIREFLY-1 study 
was not reported by the HTD. According to patient data listings in the CSR of FIREFLY-1, 13 
patients in Population 2 (59.1%) received prior BRAF inhibitors and 7 of these patients in Arm 
1 and 2 showed a CR or PR. The remaining 6 patients did not show a response to prior 
treatment with BRAF inhibitors, 2 of these were included in Arm 1. 5 of the 13 patients with 
prior BRAF inhibitor in Arm 1 and 2 showed a SD, 1 had a PD. Prior surgery for the primary 
disease was less frequent in the FIREFLY-1 study than in Bouffet 2023. 
Patients in the Bouffet 2023 study were slightly older than those in the FIREFLY-1 study, with 
a higher proportion of patients aged ≥ 12 years in the former. 
There are differences in the proportions of patients with paediatric LGG across datasets, 
whereby 100% of patients in FIREFLY-1 were diagnosed with paediatric LGG compared with 
94.4% of patients in the Bouffet study. The implications of this discrepancy for the analysis of 
relative effectiveness are uncertain. 
Overall, it is not possible to comprehensively compare patient characteristics between the 
two studies due to limited reporting in Bouffet 2023. A description of the HTD’s reweighting 
of the FIREFLY-1 population and the resulting patient baseline characteristics after 
reweighting, is provided in Section 4.3.2.2. 
4.3.2.2 Evidence synthesis methods 
This section shall briefly describe, when applicable, the evidence synthesis methods used by 
the HTD, including the associated strengths and limitations, and any factors arising from these 
methods and their application which may affect the certainty of the evidence taking into 
account, if available, the methodological guidance adopted by the HTACG pursuant to Article 
3(7), point (d), of the HTAR. 
4.3.2.2.1 Choice of evidence synthesis method 
In the absence of direct comparative data for Population 2 or a connected network of evidence 
which would allow anchored indirect comparative methods, unanchored ITCs were carried 
out to estimate relative effects. 


===== PAGE 53 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
53 
For Population 2, the assessment scope included two PICOs. However, comparative data were 
submitted for only one of these (PICO 5). Therefore, the assessment of evidence synthesis 
methods covers only the data submitted for this PICO. For PICO 5, data from FIREFLY-1 was 
used for the intervention and from Bouffet 2023 for the comparator. 
Unanchored ITCs are a type of non-randomised evidence and, as such, are associated with an 
inherently higher risk of bias than comparisons informed by randomised evidence. Reliable 
estimation of relative treatment effects in unanchored ITCs requires analysis methods that 
adequately adjust for confounding and other sources of bias. In general, these methods 
require access to full individual participant data (IPD) for both the intervention and 
comparator studies, including detailed information on baseline characteristics and outcomes 
of interest. As IPD from Bouffet 2023 were not available to the HTD, population-adjusted 
indirect comparisons like matching-adjusted indirect comparison (MAIC) and simulated 
treatment comparison (STC) are the only potential methods to estimate treatment effects for 
PICO 5. The MAIC method was selected by the HTD for the indirect comparison. This method 
re-weights IPD from FIREFLY-1 to create a weighted pseudo-population, whose baseline 
characteristics align with those from Bouffet 2023, based on reported summary statistics. 
The validity of relative effect estimates obtained from an unanchored MAIC relies on the 
following key assumptions, which are challenging to meet in practice:  
 
All prognostic and effect-modifying variables (PVs/EMs) are included in the weighting 
model.  
 
Either (i) the covariance structure of the included variables is the same in both studies or 
(ii) the included variables in the comparator study are mutually independent. 
 
There is sufficient overlap between the trial populations in terms of the included 
variables. 
 
Any other factors likely to affect observed outcomes (e.g., outcome definitions, 
assessment methods, intercurrent event handling etc.) are sufficiently similar between 
the studies being compared to allow for a valid comparison to be made. 
If any of these assumptions do not hold then the effect estimates from the MAIC will likely be 
biased. In the case of the MAIC submitted by the HTD, the assessors have identified specific 
concerns suggesting that the first, third and fourth of these assumptions may not hold, which 
are described in subsequent sections. The second assumption cannot be assessed as the 
comparator study publication does not provide information on the covariance structure of the 
baseline variables, which must therefore be considered an additional risk of bias in the MAIC 
results. 


===== PAGE 54 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
54 
The HTD’s choice of MAIC over STC in the base case was based on their claim that STC tends 
to produce more bias when mis-specified or when important PVs/EMs are omitted from the 
model, because it targets a conditional treatment effect whereas MAIC targets a marginal 
treatment effect. However, the HTD does not provide evidence to support this claim and has 
furthermore not specified a preferred target estimand for the analysis. While the underlying 
approaches and assumptions of MAIC and STC differ, both methods require that all relevant 
PVs/EMs be adjusted for in the unanchored setting. Furthermore, concerns regarding the 
performance of the MAIC method (specifically, bias and coverage) in situations of poor 
covariate overlap have been raised in the published literature, based on the results of 
simulation studies and other observations [30-32]. The HTD reported that unanchored STC 
would be carried out as an alternative to MAIC if the reduction in the effective sample size 
(ESS) relative to the original sample size after MAIC weighting was over 75%. However, as this 
did not occur, STC was not carried out. Regardless of the choice of MAIC or STC, the small 
sample sizes of the FIREFLY-1 analysis sets limit the number of variables that can be adjusted 
for in the analysis, making it difficult to meet the requirement of adjusting for all PVs/EMs and 
leading to statistical imprecision (i.e., wide confidence intervals) of the resulting effect 
estimates. 
Specific concerns that threaten the internal and external validity of the submitted MAICs and 
compromise the reliability of the results are discussed in subsequent sections. 
4.3.2.2.2 Assessment of evidence synthesis method  
The assessment of evidence synthesis methods identified specific concerns with regard to the 
following points:  
 
Identification and completeness of PVs/EMs 
 
Similarity of outcome definitions 
 
Statistical methods 
These concerns are discussed in detail in the following sections. 
4.3.2.2.2.1 Identification and completeness of prognostic and effect-modifying variables 
(PVs/EMs) 
As unanchored MAIC requires adjustment for all PVs/EMs, identification of all such variables 
is a prerequisite for the analysis. Therefore, the process used to identify these variables has 
to be comprehensive and transparently reported. 
This first step in this process was a literature review, conducted by the HTD, focusing on 
subgroup analyses presented in forest plots from FIREFLY-1 and relevant comparator studies. 
According to the HTD, this review included studies incorporated into the feasibility analysis 


===== PAGE 55 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
55 
conducted for the ITC as well as all clinical studies identified in the systematic literature review 
(SLR). The HTD describes that publications were screened for reported subgroups and 
information on potential effect modifiers or prognostic variables, including a targeted, grey 
literature search and an examination of referenced sources cited within these studies. Internal 
clinical input from the HTD was also obtained to suggest potentially relevant variables. A list 
of identified variables was then ranked in terms of relevance by clinical and HTA experts at an 
advisory board. This list of variables, together with details of which variables were included in 
the HTD’s base-case analysis, is shown in Table 22. In accordance with the ITC statistical 
analysis plan (SAP) (see Appendix D.5 of the dossier), univariate statistical tests were carried 
out by the HTD on FIREFLY-1 data to test the strength of association between each candidate 
variable and the outcomes of ORR and PFS. As planned (and as is appropriate), results of these 
tests were not used as part of the variable selection process for the primary analysis but were 
used to select variables for sensitivity analysis (see Section 4.3.2.2.3). 
Table 22: Variables identified as prognostic or effect-modifying by the HTD 
Variable 
Included in the HTD’s base-case 
MAIC analysis 
Details 
Age 
Yes 
Continuous, assuming median and 
mean age from Bouffet 2023 are 
equal 
Gender 
Yes (for analyses of PFS and safety 
outcomes) 
No (for analyses of ORR based on 
RANO-HGG) 
Unclear, due to ambiguous 
reporting in the dossier (for 
analyses of ORR based on RANO-
LGG) 
Categorical: male versus female 
Karnofsky/Lansky score (combined) Yes 
Categorical: < 80 versus 80-100 
Histological type 
No  
Not reported 
Primary Tumour location 
No  
Not reported 
BRAF V600E Mutation 
No 
Applies to all patients in Population 
2 
BRAF fusion 
No 
Not relevant for this analysis, as it 
applies to no patients in Population 
2 
Prior surgery 
Yes 
Categorical: yes versus no 
Prior chemotherapy  
No 
Applies to all patients in FIREFLY-1 
but not in Bouffet 2023 
Prior radiation therapy 
Yes (for analyses of PFS and safety 
outcomes) 
No (for analyses of ORR) 
Categorical – yes versus no 
Prior MAPK inhibitor treatment 
No 
Not reported 


===== PAGE 56 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
56 
Variable 
Included in the HTD’s base-case 
MAIC analysis 
Details 
HGG: high-grade glioma; HTD: health technology developer; LGG: low-grade glioma; MAIC: matching adjusted 
indirect comparison; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; ORR: objective response rate; RANO: Response 
Assessment in Neuro-oncology; PFS: progression-free survival 
 
For all the steps described by the HTD, no further information was provided on the variables 
initially considered nor the criteria used to identify these variables as potentially prognostic 
and/or effect-modifying. The HTD did not provide any further information on the specific 
expert input received or on the methods by which the potential PVs/EMs were presented to, 
considered or confirmed by the advisory board. Based on the available information, it is 
therefore not possible to establish whether the identification process was comprehensive or 
whether the list is likely to be complete. 
Regardless of whether the list of potentially prognostic and/or effect-modifying variables is 
likely to be complete, not all identified variables were taken into account in the analyses. Some 
of the variables identified were not relevant for the analysis in Population 2 (e.g., BRAF fusion 
versus V600E mutation), but other variables could not be adjusted for because they apply to 
either all patients in FIREFLY-1 but not to all patients in Bouffet 2023 (e.g., prior 
chemotherapy) or were not reported in Bouffet 2023 and can therefore not be included (e.g., 
histological type, prior tumour location). Of the remaining variables, five variables were 
mutually reported in the relevant datasets and adjusted for in the MAIC analysis for PFS and 
safety outcomes (age, prior surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky score, prior radiotherapy and gender). 
For the MAIC analysis of ORR based on RANO-HGG criteria, three variables were adjusted for 
(age, prior surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky score), with the HTD reporting that gender was not 
included as the weights did not converge until gender was removed from the model. No 
justification for the exclusion of prior radiotherapy in the MAIC analysis of ORR based on 
RANO-HGG criteria was provided by the HTD. For the analysis of ORR based on RANO-LGG 
criteria, it is unclear from the dossier which variables have been adjusted for due to 
inconsistent reporting. In Table 60 of the main dossier, the HTD has reported that three 
variables (age, prior surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky score) were adjusted for; however, Table 36 of 
Appendix B.2 of the dossier reports that a fourth (gender) was also included. Again, “prior 
radiotherapy” was reported as having been excluded, without justification by the HTD. 
Furthermore, the results of the MAIC for ORR and PFS by RANO-LGG (described further in 
Section 4.3.2.3) report the same ESS, indicating that the adjustment is likely to have been 
based on the same set of variables. It is unclear why different sets of variables would be used 
for the analysis of ORR and PFS by RANO-LGG as these comparisons were based on the same 
analysis sets. 


===== PAGE 57 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
57 
Summary 
As the methods used to identify the final list of potential prognostic and effect-modifying 
variables was not transparently reported, it is not possible to establish whether the 
identification process was comprehensive or whether this list is likely to be complete. 
Regardless of this, histological type, primary tumour location and prior chemotherapy were 
all identified as likely to be prognostic and/or effect-modifying but could not be adjusted for 
in the MAIC. Furthermore, having a diagnosis of HGG versus LGG is also likely to be prognostic 
and/or effect-modifying and applies to a small number of patients in Bouffet 2023, who could 
not be removed from the analysis due to the absence of IPD or suitable subgroup data from 
Bouffet 2023. Therefore, the requirement that all relevant prognostic and effect-modifying 
variables be adjusted for in the MAIC has not been met, leading to bias of unknown magnitude 
and direction in the resulting treatment effect estimates. In addition, the list of variables which 
were actually used by the HTD to conduct the adjustment are unclear due to inconsistent 
reporting and ambiguous results. 
4.3.2.2.2.2 Operationalisation and comparability of outcomes 
Results for the majority of outcomes, for which relative effect estimates were requested in 
the assessment scope, are not provided in the dossier. This is primarily due to the absence of 
comparator data for these outcomes or to differences between the definitions of the 
outcomes used in the studies which limit their comparability. The study definitions of each of 
the outcomes that were reported in both FIREFLY-1 and Bouffet 2023 and an assessment on 
their comparability and the implications for feasibility of indirect comparisons are presented 
in Table 23. An overview of all outcomes for which relative effect estimates were requested 
in the assessment scope and for which results are included in assessment is presented in 
Table 25. 
Although Bouffet 2023 reported the outcomes of CR, PR and SD by both RANO-LGG and RANO-
HGG, the number of subjects with SD of minimum 6 and/or 12 months’ duration was not 
reported. For this reason, the “Composite outcome consisting of CR, PR and SD lasting a 
minimum of (i) 6 and (ii) 12 months” requested in the assessment scope was not included in 
the dossier. 
Table 23: Outcome definitions, handling of missing data/intercurrent events, and 
assessment of comparability 
Outcome 
characteristic 
FIREFLY-1 
Bouffet 2023 
Assessment of comparability 
Objective response based on RANO-LGG 2017 criteria 
Disease 
assessment 
criteria 
RANO-LGG 2017 
Modified RANO-LGG 2017 
Definitions of ORR, based on 
different assessment criteria, 
are not comparable due to 
the inclusion of the MR 
Definition of 
Binary outcome defined as 
Binary outcome defined as 


===== PAGE 58 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
58 
Outcome 
characteristic 
FIREFLY-1 
Bouffet 2023 
Assessment of comparability 
objective 
response 
confirmed BOR of either CR, 
PR or MR. 
confirmed BOR of either CR 
or PR. Subjects with BOR of 
MR were classified as non-
responders. 
category in the objective 
responses in FIREFLY-1 but 
not in Bouffet 2023. This 
inconsistency is expected to 
bias the comparison of ORR in 
favour of tovorafenib. 
Despite these differences, a 
comparison of ORR using 
these definitions was provided 
by the HTD. 
 
An alternative definition of 
objective response in FIREFLY-
1 including just CR and PR, 
could have been derived from 
FIREFLY-1 data, and would 
have been aligned with the 
Bouffet 2023 definition. This 
comparison was requested by 
the assessors but was not 
provided by the HTD. 
Missing or non-
evaluable 
response data 
Subjects with missing or non-
evaluable post-baseline 
response data were classified 
as non-responders. 
Subjects with missing or 
unknown BOR were 
classified as non-
responders. 
Assessments 
following 
subsequent 
anti-cancer 
therapy 
Subjects with initial CR, PR or 
MR after the start of 
subsequent anti-cancer 
therapy were classified as 
non-responders. 
Handling of subsequent 
anti-cancer therapy not 
reported. 
IRC- or INV-
assessment 
IRC-assessed response 
available only. 
IRC-assessed response 
available only. 
Objective response based on RANO-HGG 2010 criteria 
Disease 
assessment 
criteria 
RANO-HGG 2010  
RANO-HGG 2010  
Definitions of ORR, based on 
RANO-HGG assessment 
criteria, are comparable. 
 
Analyses based on this 
comparison were provided by 
the HTD, for INV-assessment 
in the dossier and for IRC-
assessment in the response to 
an additional information 
request of the assessors (see 
Appendix D.2.2). 
Definition of 
objective 
response 
Binary outcome defined as 
confirmed BOR of either CR or 
PR per RANO-HGG 2010 
criteria. 
Binary outcome defined as 
confirmed BOR of either CR 
or PR per RANO-HGG 2010 
criteria. 
Missing data, 
non-evaluable 
response, and 
subsequent 
anti-cancer 
therapy 
As per analysis by RANO-LGG 
criteria described above. 
As per analysis by 
(modified) RANO-LGG 
criteria described above. 
IRC- or INV-
assessment 
IRC- and INV-assessed 
response available. 
IRC- and INV-assessed 
response available. 
PFS based on RANO-LGG 2017 criteria 
Disease 
assessment 
criteria 
RANO-LGG 2017 
RANO-LGG 2017 
Definitions, censoring rules 
and assessment schedules for 
IRC-assessed PFS, based on 
RANO-LGG 2017 criteria, 
appear to be broadly 
comparable overall.  
 
An analysis based on this 
comparison was provided by 
the HTD. 
Definition of 
PFS  
Time from initiation of 
treatment until PD or death. 
Time from the start of 
treatment with the study 
medication until the first 
documented progression or 
death from any cause. 
Censoring rules Censoring rules are shown in 
Table 27 of the HTD dossier. 
The following information 
was provided: If no event 


===== PAGE 62 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
62 
made for differences in duration of treatment exposure between patients as these data were 
unavailable from Bouffet 2023. This may limit the comparability of safety data between 
treatment groups, though it is not possible to predict the magnitude and direction of any bias 
that may arise as a result of this. 
4.3.2.2.2.3 Statistical methods 
The MAIC weights were derived from a propensity-score type model estimated using logistic 
regression, which models the odds of assignment to the comparator study as a function of the 
selected baseline variables. The model was fitted using the method of moments, as described 
in [34]. 
In the case of missing baseline covariate data from FIREFLY-1, the HTD stated that the extent 
and patterns of missingness would be evaluated and that multiple imputation of missing data 
would be implemented where appropriate. According to Section 4.3.4.2 of the HTD dossier, 
no missing data were identified in the IPD from FIREFLY-1. The HTD reported that subjects 
with missing baseline covariate data in comparator studies would be excluded for the 
purposes of MAIC-weighting, i.e., that aggregate summary percentages would be calculated 
based on those subjects with available data only. While the HTD states that missing data were 
identified in the aggregate data for the comparators, this statement appears to refer to the 
non-reporting of aggregate summary data on covariates identified as potential PVs/EMs, as 
opposed to missing observations of reported covariates, which is a separate issue. Based on 
the reported summaries in Bouffet 2023, there were no missing observations for the variables 
age, Karnofsky/Lansky performance status and gender, while it is unclear whether or not there 
were missing observations for prior surgery and prior radiotherapy. Given the small sample 
sizes, the MAIC results may be sensitive to missing baseline covariate data and therefore any 
such missing data, if present, would further limit the internal and external validity of the 
results. 
The ESS after weighting was estimated in order to assess the expected loss of precision arising 
as a result of weighting, and the covariate overlap of the study populations. The distribution 
of weights was also examined in order to identify highly influential observations, which may 
provide additional evidence of poor covariate overlap. Additional methods for the 
assessments of positivity and overlap assumptions were described in the SAP but the results 
of these assessments are not reported in the dossier. Therefore, this important requirement 
for the validity of the MAIC cannot be fully assessed. This results in additional uncertainty of 
any effect estimates provided in the dossier by the HTD.  
Binary outcomes (ORR and Safety) were analysed using a (weighted) logistic regression model 
with a single covariate for treatment group, with treatment effects for these outcomes 
estimated and reported on the odds ratio scale. Confidence intervals and p-values for relative 


===== PAGE 63 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
63 
effect estimates were obtained from the logistic regression model. The robust sandwich 
estimator was used to account for the additional variance that arises from the MAIC re-
weighting process, as recommended in the HTACG guidelines and elsewhere [35,36]. 
Time-to-event outcomes (PFS) were analysed using a (weighted) Cox model with a single 
covariate for treatment group, with treatment effects measured on the hazard ratio scale. 
Confidence intervals for HRs were derived from the Cox model and p-values were calculated 
using the associated Wald test, again using the robust sandwich variance estimator. To 
account for possible violations of the proportional hazards (PH) assumption (see below), an 
additional analysis of PFS based on restricted mean survival time (RMST) was also carried out, 
with treatment effects measured as the difference in RMST between arms. The follow-up 
timepoint of 28.43 months for the analysis of RMST was defined as the midpoint of (i) the 
minimum of the longest observed PFS times (including censored observations) for the 
intervention and control arms and (ii) the smaller of the maximum observed PFS event times 
for the intervention and control arms. The reason for this choice of timepoint is not explained 
in the dossier, though the assessors note that it is sufficient to capture all PFS events in the 
treatment groups with the shorter maximum PFS event time. Confidence intervals and p-
values for the comparison of the absolute difference in RMST were reported, though no details 
were provided on how these were calculated. The HTD stated that piecewise Cox regression 
would also be carried out if the PH assumption was violated; however, no results of this 
analysis were reported. 
No pre-planned hypothesis testing for the ITCs was described in the relevant sections of the 
dossier nor in Appendices B.2 and D.5. However, footnotes to the relative effectiveness results 
tables (Tables 60 and 61 of the HTD dossier) state that 95%-CIs excluding the null and a p-value 
< 0.05 correspond to a statistically significant result. The assessors therefore understand that 
all reported p-values are nominal, no hypothesis tests were prespecified and that no control 
for multiplicity was implemented. Furthermore, although multiple operationalisations of the 
ORR and PFS outcomes were available (RANO-HGG and RANO-LGG, INV- and IRC-assessment), 
no preferred “primary” analysis was clearly specified in the ITC SAP.  
The HTD stated in the dossier that the PH assumption was “visually violated based on the 
Schoenfeld Residuals and Log Cumulative Hazard plots and statistically based on the 
Grambsch-Therneau test (i.e., p-value < 0.05)” and that the comparison of PFS on the absolute 
difference in RMST scale was therefore the preferred analysis. No further details of the PH 
assessment were provided; therefore, the assessors cannot assess the appropriateness of this 
conclusion. 
Relative effect measures for the outcome of PFS measured as a dichotomous outcome at 6 
and 12 months were requested in the assessment scope. Rates of PFS at of 6 and 12 months 
were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and were reported separately for each 


===== PAGE 64 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
64 
treatment group; however, the corresponding relative effect measures were not provided in 
the dossier. These relative effects were therefore calculated by the assessors, measured as 
relative risks of the underlying dichotomous outcomes, using the approach described in 
Appendix C.2.4. 
Statistical analysis was conducted in R (version 4.5.1) and MAIC weighting was carried out 
using the “maic” package (a reference for this package was not provided by the HTD). 
4.3.2.2.3 Subgroup and sensitivity analysis 
The HTD provides different types of sensitivity analyses. However, given the limited 
information on confounding variables available for the unanchored MAIC presented in the 
dossier, the sensitivity analyses provide insufficient information to understand the remaining 
uncertainties. 
Sensitivity of the MAIC results to variable selection 
Sensitivity of the MAIC results to variable selection was investigated via a scenario analysis in 
which only those variables ranked of median or high importance by clinicians were included 
in the adjustment; for ORR, one variable (age) and for PFS, two variables (age and prior 
radiotherapy) were included in this analysis. In the case of PFS, additional sensitivity analysis 
was carried out in which only those variables demonstrating a statistically significant 
association with PFS in univariate analysis of FIREFLY-1 data (based on the overall study 
population) were included in the adjustment (age, Karnofsky/Lansky scores, and prior 
radiotherapy). As these analyses include only subsets of variables adjusted for in the primary 
analysis, they are also associated with a risk of bias due to missing PVs/EMs and do not provide 
any meaningful information on the sensitivity of the MAIC results to this major uncertainty. 
Sensitivity analyses for possible unmeasured confounding 
The sensitivity of the results to possible unmeasured confounding was investigated using 
shifted null hypothesis tests and by calculating E-values associated with the effect estimates. 
The results have been reported for the outcome of ORR only, although this was not specified 
in the ITC methods section and this analysis would have been possible for the comparisons of 
PFS and safety outcomes. 
Shifted null hypotheses 
Shifted null hypothesis testing involved testing treatment effect estimates for statistical 
significance against a null hypothesis that is shifted away from the “conventional” null of 
equivalence between treatment groups. In the context of non-randomised studies, such as 
unanchored MAICs, the value of the shifted null hypothesis is typically pre-specified to be of 
sufficient magnitude to ensure that if a statistically significant effect is observed, it is very 
unlikely to have arisen as a result of unmeasured confounding and/or other biases [37]. For 


===== PAGE 65 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
65 
the shifted null hypothesis tests, effect-estimates were tested against a range of shifted null 
hypotheses, with values ranging from -0.5 to 0.5 in increments of 0.01 on the log-odds ratio 
scale (binary outcomes), which corresponds to a range of approximately 0.61 to 1.65 on the 
un-transformed scale. The range of shifted null hypotheses tested by the HTD was selected 
based on Horita et al. (2024) and Fernainy and Sourial (2022) [38,39], which discuss minimally 
clinically important differences and do not provide information that can be used to estimate 
the possible magnitude of unmeasured confounding in the MAIC results. The HTD then 
calculated the “critical” value of the shifted null hypothesis for which the conclusion regarding 
statistical significance would change, if such a value could be found in the range of -0.5 to 0.5. 
In cases where no such value could be found, then it was reported as either -0.5 or 0.5, 
regardless of whether or not this value was contained within the 95% confidence interval, 
which differs from the approach prespecified in the ITC SAP (see Appendix D.5 of the dossier). 
The reason for this approach is unclear since the critical value, if it can be found within the 
prespecified range, is by definition equal to the (log-transformed) limit of the 95% confidence 
interval which is closest to 1 (0, if log-transformed); therefore this analysis provides no 
additional information beyond what is provided by the confidence interval itself. Contrary to 
what is claimed by the HTD in the dossier, a large (absolute) critical value indicates that the 
results are robust to unmeasured confounding. For these reasons, the results of the HTD’s 
shifted null hypothesis testing have not been presented in the JCA. 
E-values 
The E-value, which measures the minimum strength of association between unmeasured 
confounding and the outcome that would be required to fully explain the treatment effect 
was calculated for binary outcomes. Large E-values indicate that a greater degree of 
unmeasured confounding would be required to overturn or to reverse the conclusion 
regarding treatment effectiveness. Particularly in the present case, however, with a high 
likelihood of residual confounding due to incomplete PVs/EMs identification and inclusion in 
the MAIC (Section 4.3.2.2.2.1), the reported E-Values must be viewed critically. Indeed, the 
more PVs/EMs are missing, the higher E-values must be to provide convincing evidence that 
results are robust to unmeasured confounding. Without information about the strength of 
association between missing, relevant PVs/EMs and variables already taken into account, an 
E-value is difficult to interpret.  
In the dossier, the HTD presented a table of proposed interpretations of ranges of E-value 
thresholds (Table 28 of Appendix B.2 in the dossier); however, the assessors could not identify 
a source for this table and note that the cited source [40] explicitly states that “we do not 
propose any threshold cut-off for the E-value.” Furthermore, E-values were calculated for the 
point-estimates of treatment effects but not for the limits of the confidence intervals; 
therefore, these values represent only the degree of unmeasured confounding that would be 
required to nullify this point-estimate. A lesser degree of unmeasured confounding would be 


===== PAGE 66 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
66 
required to alter the conclusion regarding statistical significance of the treatment effect 
estimate, but the corresponding E-value has not been reported by the HTD. Finally, the 
formula for the E-value used by the HTD relies on an approximation of the relative risk by the 
odds ratio which is only recommended in VanderWeele and Ding (2017) [40] when the 
outcome is uncommon (< 15%), which is not the case for ORR in the current study (an 
alternative formula to approximate the E-value for more common outcomes is recommended 
in VanderWeele and Ding (2017) [40] but was not used). As the E-values have been calculated 
incorrectly and only for the point estimates, they are not reported in the JCA.  
Naïve indirect comparison 
A naïve indirect comparison (i.e., a comparison of outcomes between treatment groups 
without adjustment for imbalances in baseline covariates) is also provided. Such naïve 
comparisons are prone to bias and should not be relied upon for effect estimation but may 
nonetheless provide useful information on the impact of population-adjustment on study 
outcomes. 
Subgroup analyses 
Subgroup analyses as requested per assessment scope on age and prior treatment lines were 
not available for the JCA as no data on these subgroups are reported in Bouffet 2023. 
4.3.2.2.4 Patient characteristics before and after weighting 
Baseline characteristics after MAIC weighting in the datasets, reported by the HTD as having 
been used for the analysis of efficacy outcomes, are shown in Table 24. The assessors highlight 
the following concerns which suggest that the presented data may contain errors: 
 
In the case of the RANO-LGG evaluable set, the HTD reports that different sets of 
covariates were adjusted for in the base case analyses of ORR and PFS (see 
Section 4.3.2.2.2.1); however, baseline characteristics for a single “adjusted base case” 
are reported in the dossier (Table 51) for this analysis set. Furthermore, the same ESS is 
reported for both outcomes in the presentation of the relative effectiveness results in 
the dossier (Tables 60 and 61), which is unlikely to be correct if the set of adjusted 
variables are different. 
For all categorical variables, the sum of the weights across the different categories should be 
the same (in the absence of missing data). This is not the case for a number of variables in 
Table 24: for example, in the “adjusted base case” for the RANO-LGG evaluable set, the sum 
of the weights for the “Karnofsky/Lansky score” variable is 5.8 but the sum for the “Post-
operative staging” variable is 8.41. In both cases, no missing observations are reported for 
the unadjusted data and the sum of the patient numbers is 12; therefore this discrepancy 
cannot be explained by missing data.  


===== PAGE 74 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
74 
Table 25: Matrix of outcomes in the included studies for Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation 
in patients > 1 year) – PICO 5 – unanchored matching-adjusted indirect comparison: 
tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + trametinib 
Outcomes requested 
OperaƟonalisaƟon 
Outcome reported in the study 
(Yes/No) 
Results included in the 
JCA report (Yes/No) 
 
All results are based on 
unanchored MAIC 
methods 
Tovorafenib 
FIREFLY-1 
Dabrafenib + 
trameƟnib  
Bouﬀet 2023 
Safety outcomes  
 
 
 
Any AE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yesa 
Serious AE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Severe AE [CTCAE Grade≥ 3] 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Death related to AE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yesb 
Treatment disconƟnuaƟon due to AE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Treatment interrupƟon due to AE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
OS  
Yes  
No  
No 
PFS 
 
 
 
RANO-LGG (IRC)  
Yes  
Yes  
Yesc 
RAPNO (IRC) 
Yes  
No  
No 
RANO-HGG (IRC) 
Yes 
No 
No 
RANO-HGG (INV) 
Yes 
Yes 
Nod 
ObjecƟve response 
 
 
 
RANO-LGG (IRC)  
Yes 
Noe 
Nof 
Modiﬁed RANO-LGG (IRC)g 
Noh 
Yes 
No 
RAPNO (IRC)  
Yes  
No  
No 
RANO-HGG (IRC) 
Yes  
Yes 
Yes 
RANO-HGG (INV) 
Yes 
Yes  
Yes 
HRQoL 
 
 
 
Generic  
Noi 
No 
No 
Disease-speciﬁc  
Noi 
No 
No 
Symptoms of the disease 
 
 
 
impaired vision 
Yesj 
No  
No 
motor funcƟon 
Nok 
No 
No 
neurological funcƟon;  
impaired balance and hearing; epilepƟc 
seizures;  
severe haemorrhagic events 
No 
No 
No 
General and cogniƟve faƟgue 
Nol 
No 
No 
SymptomaƟc disease controlm 
No 
No 
No 


===== PAGE 78 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
78 
Table 26: Relative effectiveness results (dichotomous outcomes) for Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation in patients > 1 year) – PICO 5 – 
unanchored matching-adjusted indirect comparison: tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + trametinib 
Intervention 
Tovorafenib 
Dabrafenib + trametinib 
Indirect comparison method 
Tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + 
trametinib 
Study 
FIREFLY-1 
Bouffet 2023 
Data-cut 
2 year 
NR 
Outcome 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%)  
[95%-CI] 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%) 
[95%-CI] 
ESS 
(FIREFLY-1) 
ORa/RRb [95%-CI] 
p-valuec 
OS 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
PFS 
6-month PFS rated by 
RANO-LGG criteria, 
IRC-assessment 
NR 
94 [85, 100] 
NR (36) 
86 [75, 98] 
MAIC base case: adjusted for age, prior 
surgery, prior radiotherapy, 
Karnofsky/Lansky score, gender 
5.81 
RR: 1.09 [0.92; 1.30] 
– 
80 [61, 100] 
MAIC scenario 1: adjusted for age and 
prior radiotherapy 
11.54 
RR: 0.93 [0.69, 1.26] 
– 
87 [73, 100] 
MAIC scenario 2: adjusted for age, 
Karnofsky/Lanky score and prior 
radiotherapy 
10.66 
RR: 1.01 [0.81, 1.26] 
– 
83 [65, 100] 
Naïve comparison 
12 
RR: 0.97 [0.73, 1.28] 
– 
12-month PFS rated 
by RANO-LGG 
criteria, IRC-
assessment 
NR 
76 [52, 100] 
NR (36) 
83 [71, 96] 
MAIC base case: adjusted for age, prior 
surgery, prior radiotherapy, 
Karnofsky/Lansky score, gender 
5.81 
RR: 0.92 [0.61, 1.38] 
– 
56 [34, 92] 
MAIC scenario 1: adjusted for age and 
prior radiotherapy 
11.54 
RR: 0.67 [0.40, 1.14] 
– 
63 [41, 97] 
MAIC scenario 2: adjusted for age, 
Karnofsky/Lanky score and prior 
radiotherapy 
10.66 
RR: 0.76 [0.48, 1.20] 
– 


===== PAGE 79 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
79 
Intervention 
Tovorafenib 
Dabrafenib + trametinib 
Indirect comparison method 
Tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + 
trametinib 
Study 
FIREFLY-1 
Bouffet 2023 
Data-cut 
2 year 
NR 
Outcome 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%)  
[95%-CI] 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%) 
[95%-CI] 
ESS 
(FIREFLY-1) 
ORa/RRb [95%-CI] 
p-valuec 
58 [36, 94] 
Naïve comparison 
12 
RR: 0.70 [0.42, 1.15] 
– 
Objective response 
Composite of CR+PR 
by RANO-HGG 
criteria, INV-
assessment 
NR 
NR 
19 (36) 
52.8 [NR, 
NR] 
MAIC base case: adjusted for age, prior 
surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky score  
6.64 
OR: 0.56 [0.08, 3.84] 
p = 0.551 
NR 
NR 
MAIC scenario 1: adjusted for age only 
10 
OR: 0.60 [0.13, 2.83] 
p = 0.515 
4 (10) 
40.0 [12.2, 
73.8] 
Naïve comparison 
10 
OR: 0.60 [0.14, 2.48] 
p = 0.477 
Composite of CR+PR 
by RANO-HGG 
criteria, IRC-
assessmente 
NR 
NR 
7 (36) 
19.4 [8.2, 
36.0] 
MAIC base case: adjusted for age, prior 
surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky score. 
6.64 
OR: 7.26 [0.98, 53.68] 
p = 0.052 
NR 
NR 
MAIC scenario 1: adjusted for age only 
10 
OR: 4.16 [0.83, 21.01] 
p = 0.084 
5 (10) 
50.0 [18.7, 
81.3] 
Naïve comparison 
10 
OR: 4.41 [0.93, 18.37] 
p = 0.061 
HRQoL, generic 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
HRQoL, disease-specific 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
Symptoms of the disease 
Relative effectiveness results not available 


===== PAGE 80 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
80 
Intervention 
Tovorafenib 
Dabrafenib + trametinib 
Indirect comparison method 
Tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + 
trametinib 
Study 
FIREFLY-1 
Bouffet 2023 
Data-cut 
2 year 
NR 
Outcome 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%)  
[95%-CI] 
Events 
(sample size) 
Rate (%) 
[95%-CI] 
ESS 
(FIREFLY-1) 
ORa/RRb [95%-CI] 
p-valuec 
Symptomatic disease control 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
Composite outcome comprising of CR, PR, or SD lasting a minimum of (i) 6 and (ii) 12 months 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
General and cognitive fatigue 
Relative effectiveness results not available 
a: Values of OR > 1 indicate higher ORR with tovorafenib 
b: Calculated by assessors from Kaplan-Meier estimated probabilities per arm given in the dossier (see Appendix C.2.4). Values of RR > 1 indicate higher 
probabilities of remaining alive and progression-free with tovorafenib. 
c: No formal hypothesis testing was described in the evidence synthesis SAP nor in the relevant sections of the dossier. Therefore, all p-values should be 
interpreted as nominal. 
d: Calculated as the Kaplan-Meier probability estimate of PFS (probability of remaining alive and progression-free) at the relevant timepoint. 
e. additional information on this assessment in Appendix D.2.2 
CI: confidence interval; CR: complete response; HRQoL: health-related quality of life; INV: investigator; IRC: independent review committee; MAIC: matching-
adjusted indirect comparison; NR: not reported; OR: odds ratio; ORR: objective response rate; PFS: progression-free survival; PR: partial response; RANO-HGG: 
Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for high-grade gliomas; RANO-LGG: Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for low-grade gliomas; RR: 
relative risk; SD: stable disease 
 


===== PAGE 83 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
83 
over tovorafenib when measured both on the HR scale and on the RMST scale. While this 
comparison was reported by the HTD as statistically significant based on a nominal 5% alpha 
level, no formal hypothesis testing was described and analyses were not prespecified nor 
controlled for multiplicity, which limits the interpretability of the reported p-values. Rates of 
PFS at 6 and 12 months were similar between treatment groups in the base case MAIC. In 
addition to the general uncertainties in the evidence listed previously, issues affecting 
certainty of evidence for the PFS outcome specifically include the following:  
 
The HTD has reported that the PH assumption is unlikely to hold; however, results of the 
assessment of PH were not provided and therefore the assessors cannot comment on 
the appropriateness of this conclusion. If the PH assumption is violated, then the HR may 
not be an appropriate measure of treatment effect and the difference in RMST may be a 
more reliable summary of the corresponding relative effect. 
 
The definitions of PFS (including censoring rules) and assessment schedules were 
broadly similar between FIREFLY-1 and Bouffet 2023, although a breakdown of number 
of censored observations by censoring reason was not provided in Bouffet 2023. The 
possibility of bias due to informative censoring and/or differences in censoring 
mechanisms between studies cannot be entirely excluded. 
 
Data on PFS by INV-assessed RANO-HGG criteria were available from both FIREFLY-1 
and, in the form of published Kaplan-Meier curves with numbers at-risk, also from 
Bouffet 2023, but results of the corresponding indirect comparison were not provided by 
the HTD. There is, therefore, a risk of bias due to selective reporting of the PFS outcome. 
In addition, analyses for rates of PFS at 6 and 12 months (binary outcomes) were also 
requested in the assessment scope. Relative effectiveness analyses were not provided 
by the HTD, although data on 6- and 12-month PFS rates in both treatment groups were 
reported. However, for completeness, the assessors calculated relative risks for PFS at 
these time points (for details see Appendix C.2.4). 
Safety 
Descriptive safety outcomes are shown in Table 28, while results for the analysis of relative 
safety are presented in Appendix C.3. It was not possible to generate a relative effect estimate 
for the outcomes of “Any AE” due to the incidence rate of 100% in both study groups. Direct 
calculation of a relative effect estimate (i.e., without applying a continuity correction or other 
adjustment) for “death related to AE” was not possible due to zero events in Bouffet 2023 and 
is not deemed necessary due to low overall event numbers and sample size. The incidence of 
safety outcomes may be affected by differences in the duration of drug exposure between 
studies, which could not be adjusted for in the analysis and may negatively affect certainty of 
evidence for safety outcomes. 


===== PAGE 84 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
84 
Table 28: Descriptive safety outcomes for Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation in patients 
> 1 year) – PICO 5 – tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + trametinib 
Study reference/ID 
Time point 
Outcome 
Tovorafenib  
FIREFLY-1a 
Dabrafenib + trametinib  
Bouffet 2023 
N 
Patients with event  
n (%) 
N 
Patients with event  
n (%) 
Data-cut 
2-year 
Study Completion 
Any AE 
22 
22 (100.0) 
36 
36 (100.0) 
Serious AE 
22 
13 (59.1) 
36 
15 (41.7) 
Severe AE [CTCAE] 
 
 
 
 
Grade ≥ 3 
22 
20 (90.9) 
36 
22 (61.1) 
Grade 3 
22 
17 (77.3) 
36 
NR 
Grade 4 
22 
1 (4.5) 
36 
NR 
Grade 5 
22 
2 (9.1) 
36 
NR 
Death related to AE 
22 
2 (9.1) 
36 
0 (0) 
Treatment discontinuation due to AE 
22 
3 (13.6) 
36 
8 (22.2) 
Treatment interruption due to AE 
22 
15 (68.2) 
36 
26 (72.2) 
a: Safety data is based on Arm 1 + 2 of FIREFLY-1 
AE: adverse event; BRAF: v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B; CTCAE: Common Terminology 
Criteria for Adverse Events; ID: identification; N: number of patients in the analysis; n: number of patients 
with at least 1 event; NR: not reported 
 
4.3.2.4 Health outcome results for PICO 6 and uncertainties in the results 
An analysis of the relative effectiveness and safety of tovorafenib for PICO 6 was not provided 
by the HTD. See Section 3 for further details on reasons for the omission of results for this 
PICO. 


===== PAGE 86 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
86 
5 
List of references 
1. Roka K, Scheinemann K, Avula S et al. European Standard Clinical Practice 
Recommendations for primary Pediatric Low-grade Gliomas. EJC Paediatric Oncology 2024; 
4: 100169. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejcped.2024.100169. 
2. Ryall S, Tabori U, Hawkins C. Pediatric low-grade glioma in the era of molecular 
diagnostics. Acta Neuropathol Commun 2020; 8(1): 30. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40478-020-
00902-z. 
3. Ipsen Pharma. Sponsor’s report on the maintenance of designation criteria at the time of 
MA or type II variation application for a designated orphan medicinal product - Ojemda 
[unpublished]. 2025.  
4. Gnekow AK, Kandels D, Tilburg CV et al. SIOP-E-BTG and GPOH Guidelines for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Low Grade Glioma. Klin Padiatr 2019; 
231(3): 107-135. https://doi.org/10.1055/a-0889-8256. 
5. Zelt S, Cooney T, Yu S et al. Disease burden and healthcare utilization in pediatric low-
grade glioma: A United States retrospective study of linked claims and electronic health 
records. Neurooncol Pract 2024; 11(5): 583-592. https://doi.org/10.1093/nop/npae037. 
6. Novartis Europharm. Finlee 10 mg dispersible tablets [online]. 11.2025 [Accessed: 
05.11.2025]. URL: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/finlee-
epar-product-information_en.pdf. 
7. Novartis Europharm. Spexotras 0.05 mg/ml powder for oral solution [online]. 11.2025 
[Accessed: 05.11.2025]. URL: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
information/spexotras-epar-product-information_en.pdf. 
8. Member State Coordination Group on Health Technology Assessment. Questions and 
Answers on general methodological and procedural issues for joint clinical assessments 
[online]. 2025 [Accessed: 28.01.2026]. URL: 
https://health.ec.europa.eu/publications/questions-and-answers-general-methodological-
and-procedural-issues-joint-clinical-assessments_en. 
9. Ipsen Pharma. FIREFLY-1 (DCO 10 May 2024); Clinical Study Report [unpublished]. 2025.  
10. Day One Biopharmaceuticals. A Study to Evaluate Tovorafenib in Pediatric and Young 
Adult Participants With Relapsed or Progressive Low-Grade Glioma and Advance Solid 
Tumors (FIREFLY-1) [online]. 2025 [Accessed: 18.11.2025]. URL: 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04775485. 
11. DOT Therapeutics-1 (Day One). A Phase 2, Open-Label, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the 
Safety and Efficacy of the Oral Pan-RAF Inhibitor DAY101 in Pediatric Patients with BRAF-
Altered, Recurrent or Progressive Low-Grade Glioma [online]. [Accessed: 18.11.2025]. URL: 
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2020-003657-30. 


===== PAGE 104 =====
JCA-MP-20XX / review of revised JCA report by individual experts: 
Comments should be submitted no later than XX Month 20XX EOB 
Of note, expert input is provided on the draft version of the report and summary. Page and line numbers might differ in the final version.  
 
 
Comment 
from 
 
Please 
indicate if 
you are ‘a 
clinical 
expert’ 
or 
‘a patient / 
carer’ 
 
 
For clinical 
expert 
only: 
Insert your 
name 
Which 
document is the 
comment 
related to? 
- 
JCA report 
- 
the 
summary 
report of 
the JCA 
Page number 
Insert ‘general’ if 
your comment 
relates to the whole 
document. 
 
 
 
Line 
number 
Report section 
title  
Comment  
Insert each new comment in a new row. 
Patient 
carer 
 
JCA report 
General  
 
 General 
information 
on the JCA 
(page 12–14) 
and 
Appendix A – 
Input from 
experts and 
stakeholders 
 
While carer input is documented in Appendix A.1, the report does 
not explain how this input was considered or whether it influenced 
the assessment scope or conclusions (e.g. PICO definitions, 
Comparator selection, Outcome prioritisation). 
 
 
Patient 
carer 
 
JCA report 
Tables 10–12 
Pages 19–24 
 
 
Section 3 – 
Assessment 
scope 
 
The exclusion of partial or mixed real‑world comparator data limits 
the relevance of the assessment for families, as paediatric LGG 
treatment is often individualised in clinical practice. 
 
Patient 
Carer 
 
JCA report 
 
Pages 74–76 
 
 
Section 4.3.2 
– Results for 
patient 
No HRQoL results are available for Population 2, in FIREFLY-1 so 
none are assessed. 
The absence of quality‑of‑life data represents a major evidence 


===== PAGE 106 =====
JCA-MP-20XX / review of revised JCA report by individual experts: 
Comments should be submitted no later than XX Month 20XX EOB 
Of note, expert input is provided on the draft version of the report and summary. Page and line numbers might differ in the final version.  
 
Comment 
from 
 
Please 
indicate if 
you are ‘a 
clinical 
expert’ 
or 
‘a patient / 
carer’ 
 
 
For clinical 
expert 
only: 
Insert your 
name 
Which 
document is the 
comment 
related to? 
- 
JCA report 
- 
the 
summary 
report of 
the JCA 
Page number 
Insert ‘general’ if 
your comment 
relates to the whole 
document. 
 
 
 
Line 
number 
Report section 
title  
Comment  
Insert each new comment in a new row. 
influence outcomes) 
- 
Rebound effects  
 
Patient 
Carer 
 
The summary 
report of the 
JCA 
General 
 
 
While the Summary Report provides a clear overview of the 
assessment, it also highlights major uncertainties and missing 
evidence for patient‑relevant outcomes, including quality of life, 
long‑term treatment considerations, and real‑world comparators 
which are particularly important in a paediatric setting. 
 
 


===== PAGE 109 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
109 
Appendix B 
Assessment of information retrieval 
The appropriateness of data sources and search strategies by the HTD with regard to the 
medicinal product under assessment was reviewed by the team of the assessor and co-
assessor. Search strategies were checked for appropriateness, and the results of information 
retrieval included in the HTD’s submission dossier were checked for completeness against a 
search of study registries and in PubMed (for details see Appendix B.1). 
Concerns regarding the transparency and verifiability of the information retrieval include: 
 
For the study registry searches the HTD does not provide lists of excluded studies with 
reasons for exclusion.  
 
The search dates for studies performed or sponsored by the HTD and for the studies 
from submission files to EMA are missing. 
Additional concerns were identified regarding the confounder identification the HTD 
describes in Appendix B.2 of the dossier (for details see Section 4.3.2.2.2.1). Concerns 
regarding information retrieval and study selection are described in more detail below. 
Reasons for exclusion not transparent for all studies 
Most importantly, for the searches in study registries, the HTD did not provide lists of excluded 
studies with the reasons for exclusion. The studies not considered in the dossier should be 
identified and listed for each of the information retrieval steps, and the reason for exclusion 
should be specified for each of them. This also includes information retrieval steps in study 
registries. As this information is missing from the dossier, the reason for exclusion of certain 
studies from this assessment is not transparent. 
For example, the HTD gives no reason for exclusion for study DAY101-102 [41] which is listed 
in the overview of the tovorafenib clinical programme. Besides patients with melanoma, this 
study also planned to include patients ≥ 12 years of age with other solid tumours with 
alterations of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. This may include patients with paediatric LGG 
and BRAF alterations. As the HTD does not provide reasons for exclusion for the searches in 
study registries, it is unclear from the dossier why this study was excluded. However, because 
the inclusion criteria were not limited to LGG or brain tumours, it is unlikely that the study 
included a sufficient number of patients with paediatric LGG and BRAF alterations relevant for 
the JCA. Thus, the missing information on the reason for exclusion does not affect the current 
assessment. 


===== PAGE 110 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
110 
Reasons for exclusion not suitable for all studies 
The reasons for exclusion for studies C28001 [42] and C28002 [43] from the tovorafenib 
clinical programme as well as the reason for exclusion of the investigator-sponsored trial 
PNOC014 [44] are inappropriate.  
Studies C28001 and C28002 were excluded by the HTD because adults with solid malignancies 
and solid tumours were included, respectively. This reason alone is not sufficient for exclusion 
because young adults with paediatric LGG (a form of solid tumours) are within the scope of 
the assessment. However, in study C28001 only one patient with a brain tumour who may 
potentially be relevant for the current assessment was included according to the information 
from the CSR. For study C28002 another reason for exclusion applies because tovorafenib is 
used in combination with other drugs and not as monotherapy. Thus, although adequate 
reasons for the exclusion of these studies were not provided, this does not affect the evidence 
base of the current assessment. 
Study PNOC014 is a phase 1 dose-escalation, investigator-sponsored trial that included 
patients with recurrent/progressive mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway-
altered paediatric tumours, including paediatric LGG. According to the HTD, neither Ipsen nor 
their partner Day One funded the study nor do they oversee or manage it.  
In Section 5.1.3 of the dossier, the HTD mentions 2 reasons for exclusion of the study: (i) phase 
1 dose-escalation study with no data submitted as part of the EMA submission, and (ii) 
investigator-sponsored study (limited data/information available). If relevant data matching 
the assessment scope were collected, the first reason alone may not justify exclusion of the 
study. In Appendix B.2 of the dossier, the HTD describes that Day One attempted to obtain 
data from PNOC014, but that the quantity of data was limited and no CSR was provided. In 
addition, no publication on the methods and results of the study is available for the current 
assessment. According to ClinicalTrials.gov, the study is ongoing with an estimated completion 
date of 31 December 2025. Therefore, the publication of the results is not expected within the 
time frame of the JCA [44]. 
In addition, the HTD generally excluded studies with fewer than 10 participants in the 
population of interest from data extraction. In general, using such a cut-off point as an 
exclusion criterion is not considered useful, and the decision on the inclusion of studies of a 
certain size is a matter of assessment. 
B.1 Search strategies to verify completeness of studies 
B.1.1 Study registries 
1) ClinicalTrials.gov (last search on 31 July 2025) 
Provider: U.S. National Institutes of Health 


===== PAGE 112 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
112 
3) Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS) (last search on 31/07/2025) 
Provider: European Medicines Agency 
 
URL: https://euclinicaltrials.eu/search-for-clinical-trials 
Interface: Basic Criteria 
Search strategy for tovorafenib 
tovorafenib, MLN-2480, MLN2480, TAK-580, TAK580 [Contain any of these terms] 
 
Search strategy for comparators 
glioma [Contain all of these terms] / vinblastine, vincristine, everolimus, SDZ-RAD, SDZRAD, RAD-001, RAD001, 
bevacizumab, trametinib, GSK-1120212, GSK1120212, JTP-74057, JTP74057 [Contain any of these terms] 
gliomas [Contain all of these terms] / vinblastine, vincristine, everolimus, SDZ-RAD, SDZRAD, RAD-001, 
RAD001, bevacizumab, trametinib, GSK-1120212, GSK1120212, JTP-74057, JTP74057 [Contain any of these 
terms] 
glioblastoma [Contain all of these terms] / vinblastine, vincristine, everolimus, SDZ-RAD, SDZRAD, RAD-001, 
RAD001, bevacizumab, trametinib, GSK-1120212, GSK1120212, JTP-74057, JTP74057 [Contain any of these 
terms] 
ependymoma [Contain all of these terms] / vinblastine, vincristine, everolimus, SDZ-RAD, SDZRAD, RAD-001, 
RAD001, bevacizumab, trametinib, GSK-1120212, GSK1120212, JTP-74057, JTP74057 [Contain any of these 
terms] 
 
B.1.2 Bibliographic databases 
MEDLINE (PubMed) (last search on 31 July 2025) 
The following filter was applied: 
Population search filter: Improved CCG child filter for PubMed [45] 
# 
Query 
1 
"tovorafenib"[Supplementary Concept] OR "tovorafenib"[All Fields] 
2 
"vinblastine"[Supplementary Concept] OR "vinblastine"[All Fields] OR "vinblastin"[All Fields] OR 
"vinblastine"[MeSH Terms] OR "vincristine"[Supplementary Concept] OR "vincristine"[All Fields] OR 
"vincristin"[All Fields] OR "vincristine"[MeSH Terms] OR "everolimus"[Supplementary Concept] OR 
"everolimus"[All Fields] OR "everolimus"[MeSH Terms] OR "bevacizumab"[Supplementary Concept] OR 
"bevacizumab"[All Fields] OR "bevacizumab"[MeSH Terms] OR "bevacizumab s"[All Fields] OR 
"trametinib"[Supplementary Concept] OR "trametinib"[All Fields] 
3 
"glioma"[MeSH Terms] OR "glioma"[All Fields] OR "gliomas"[All Fields] OR "glioma s"[All Fields] OR 
"astrocytoma"[MeSH Terms] OR "astrocytoma"[All Fields] OR "astrocytomas"[All Fields] OR 
"glioblastoma"[MeSH Terms] OR "glioblastoma"[All Fields] OR "glioblastomas"[All Fields] OR 
"oligodendroglioma"[MeSH Terms] OR "oligodendroglioma"[All Fields] OR "oligodendrogliomas"[All 
Fields] OR "ependymoma"[MeSH Terms] OR "ependymoma"[All Fields] OR "ependymomas"[All Fields] 


===== PAGE 113 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
113 
# 
Query 
4 
"infan*"[All Fields] OR "newborn*"[All Fields] OR "new-born"[All Fields] OR "perinat*"[All Fields] OR 
"neonat*"[All Fields] OR ("infant, newborn"[MeSH Terms] OR ("infant"[All Fields] AND "newborn"[All 
Fields]) OR "newborn infant"[All Fields] OR "baby"[All Fields] OR "infant"[MeSH Terms] OR "infant"[All 
Fields]) OR "baby*"[All Fields] OR ("baby s"[All Fields] OR "babys"[All Fields] OR "infant"[MeSH Terms] 
OR "infant"[All Fields] OR "babies"[All Fields]) OR "toddler*"[All Fields] OR ("minority groups"[MeSH 
Terms] OR ("minority"[All Fields] AND "groups"[All Fields]) OR "minority groups"[All Fields] OR 
"minorities"[All Fields] OR "minority"[All Fields] OR "minority s"[All Fields] OR "minors"[MeSH Terms] 
OR "minors"[All Fields] OR "minor"[All Fields]) OR "minors*"[All Fields] OR ("men"[MeSH Terms] OR 
"men"[All Fields] OR "boy"[All Fields]) OR ("men"[MeSH Terms] OR "men"[All Fields] OR "boys"[All 
Fields]) OR ("boyfriend"[All Fields] OR "boyfriend s"[All Fields] OR "boyfriends"[All Fields]) OR 
"boyhood"[All Fields] OR "girl*"[All Fields] OR "kid"[All Fields] OR "kids"[All Fields] OR ("child"[MeSH 
Terms] OR "child"[All Fields] OR "children"[All Fields] OR "child s"[All Fields] OR "children s"[All Fields] 
OR "childrens"[All Fields] OR "childs"[All Fields]) OR "child*"[All Fields] OR "children*"[All Fields] OR 
"schoolchild*"[All Fields] OR "schoolchild"[All Fields] OR "school child"[Title/Abstract] OR "school 
child*"[Title/Abstract] OR "adolescen*"[All Fields] OR "juvenil*"[All Fields] OR "youth*"[All Fields] OR 
"teen*"[All Fields] OR "under*age*"[All Fields] OR "pubescen*"[All Fields] OR "pediatrics"[MeSH 
Terms] OR "pediatric*"[All Fields] OR "paediatric*"[All Fields] OR "peadiatric*"[All Fields] OR 
"school"[Title/Abstract] OR "school*"[Title/Abstract] OR "prematur*"[All Fields] OR "preterm*"[All 
Fields] 
5 
"braf"[All Fields] 
6 
#2 AND #3 AND #4 AND #5 
7 
#1 OR #6 
8 
#7 AND Filters: English, German 
 


===== PAGE 114 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
114 
Appendix C 
Additional study information and data, including uncertainties in the results 
C.1 Additional characteristics of included studies for Population 2 (BRAF V600E mutation 
in patients > 1 year), PICO 5 
Table 29: Information on the course of included studies – actual treatment duration and 
observation periods (Population 2) 
Study reference/IDa 
Outcome category 
FIREFLY-1b  
Bouffet 2023 
Intervention 
Tovorafenib 
N = 13 (Arm 1) 
Tovorafenib 
N = 22 (Arm 1 + 2) 
Dabrafenib + 
trametinib  
N = 36  
Treatment duration [days/months] 
Median [min; max] 
722.0 [142.0; 958.0] 
days 
612.0 [142.0; 958.0] 
days 
24 (range: 2.1 -52.5) 
months 
Mean (SD) 
563.3 (278.1) days 
545.7 (237.2) days 
NR 
Observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
30.2 [6.5; 36.5] 
20.4 [7.9; 23.7] 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
27.42 (7.256) 
24.08 (7.399) 
NR 
OS observation period [months]c 
Median [min; max] 
27.8d [10.0, 31.5] 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
25.86 (6.306) 
NR 
NR 
PFS observation period[months] 
Median [min; max] 
NR 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
NR 
NR 
NR 
ORR observation period[months] 
Median [min; max] 
NR 
NR 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
NR 
NR 
NR 
Safety observation period [months] 
Median [min; max] 
30.2 [6.5; 36.5] 
24.9 [6.5; 36.5] 
NR 
Mean (SD) 
27.42 (7.256) 
24.08 (7.399) 
NR 
a: Only outcomes with the requested information available for at least one included study are presented in 
the dossier. 
b: Efficacy analyses were conducted for Arm 1 and safety and HRQoL analyses were conducted for Arm 1 + 
Arm 2. 
c: There is no information available on how the observation period was calculated. 
d: Median OS only reported for the Full Analysis Set, N = 10. 
ID: identification; max: maximum; min: minimum; NR: not reported; ORR: overall response rate; OS: overall 
survival; PFS: progression-free survival; SD: standard deviation 
 


===== PAGE 135 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
135 
D.1.3 Brief assessment by the assessors of the HTD's response to the first request for 
additional information  
In response to the assessors' first additional information request, the HTD did not provide an 
updated dossier. The HTD’s responses and arguments for not submitting the requested 
analyses are insufficient in the following respects: 
 
The HTD initially disagreed with the assessors that the INV-assessed tumour responses in 
Bouffet 2023 were labelled incorrectly in the analyses provided by the HTD. Corrected 
analyses were provided after a further request by the assessors (see Section D.2.2).  
 
The HTD's arguments for not submitting relative effectiveness analyses based on data 
from Arms 1 + 2 of FIREFLY-1 are insufficient:  
 The HTD argues that the inclusion criteria for Arm 2 of the study do not correspond 
to the intended indication according to the assessment scope, and that Arms 1 + 2 
should therefore not be pooled. The assessors acknowledge that the inclusion 
criteria differ slightly between Arm 1 and Arm 2 in a way that would potentially allow 
patients that are not aligned with the intended labelled indication as per the 
assessment scope to be included in Arm 2 of the study. However, the reported 
characteristics of the patients in Arm 2 (which are also included for the safety 
analyses) clearly show that the patients are within the intended assessment scope 
and could therefore be included in a pooled analysis.  
 For patients in Arm 2 of FIREFLY-1, analyses for the same outcomes as prespecified 
for Arm 1 were predefined in the study protocol. The HTD provides no explanation as 
to why the sponsor of the study (Day One Biopharmaceuticals) did not conduct the 
efficacy analyses for Arm 2. The HTD did not provide sufficient justification for not 
carrying out the requested analyses themselves. 


===== PAGE 138 =====
definitions, (as requested above) 
using pooled data from Arm 1 and 
Arm 2 of FIREFLY-1.  
See point 1. 
 
3. Analysis and results of relative 
effects on PFS based on RANO-HGG 
(INV) criteria (investigator 
assessment), to facilitate 
comparison with Bouffet 2023 using 
consistent RANO-HGG (INV) 
definitions, (as requested above) 
using pooled data from Arm 1 and 
Arm 2 of FIREFLY-1.  
Extension of the evidence to Arm 2 in the FIREFLY-1 trial would 
facilitate additional PFS comparison with Bouffet 2023, based on 
RANO-HGG (INV) criteria 
See point 1. 
 
 
Further request for additional information on safety outcomes:  
Request 
Rationale 
4. Corrected analyses on all safety outcomes for 
PICO 5.   
 
  
The analyses on safety outcomes submitted by the 
HTD appear to be incorrect. For example, for 
treatment interruption due to AE, a large effect 
estimate was reported while the proportion of 
patients with events did not differ substantially 
between the studies (see dossier Appendix A.2, 
Table 17). 
The assessors were not able to reproduce the effect 
estimates shown for the naïve comparisons for 
most of the safety outcomes (i.e., serious AE, 
treatment discontinuation due to AE and treatment 
interruption due to AE), whereas the results for 
severe AE [CTCAE grade ≥ 3] were reproducible.  
Therefore, corrected analyses are necessary for the 
safety outcomes, including a quality check of the 
base case analyses for all safety outcomes.  
 


===== PAGE 147 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma 
8 
1. Analysis and results of relative effects on ORR based on RANO-HGG criteria per IRC
assessment for PICO 5
As noted above, to ensure completeness and address the variability observed in ORR between 
RANO-HGG INV and IRC assessments in the Bouﬀet 2023 study (1), the HTD has conducted 
addiƟonal ORR analyses based on RANO-HGG criteria per IRC assessment vs. Bouﬀet 2023 (1), 
using the RANO-HGG IRC results available in the NovarƟs dossier submiƩed to The Federal Joint 
CommiƩee (G-BA) (2). The data inputs and results for these analyses are provided in Table 2 and 
described below.  
Table 2: RelaƟve eﬀecƟveness results (ORR) based on RANO-HGG criteria per IRC assessment for 
subpopulaƟon 1 (BRAF V600E mutaƟon in paƟents > 1 year) – PICO 5 – unanchored populaƟon-
adjusted indirect comparison: tovorafenib vs. combinaƟon of dabrafenib and trameƟnib 
Time point 
Outcome 
Comparison 
Scenario 
Tovorafenib 
FIREFLY-1 (4) 
Dabrafenib + trametinib 
Bouffet 2023 (2) 
Group difference 
Tumour 
response 
assessment 
criteria and 
method 
N/N 
(with 
event)  
% 
(95% 
CI) 
Tumour 
response 
assessment 
criteria and 
method 
N/N 
(with 
event)  
% 
(95% 
CI) 
ESS 
ORd  
(95 %-CI) 
p-value
Shifted null 
hypothesis 
δe  
(E-value) 
Data-cut   
2-year
NR 
ORR (CR+PR) 
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
 10/5 
50.0 
(18.7, 
81.3) 
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
36/7 
19.4 
(8.2, 
36.0) 
 NA 
       NA 
        NA 
Indirect comparison (PAIC) of tovorafenib and dabrafenib + trametinib: 
Naïve 
comparisona  
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
10 
4.14 
(0.93, 18.37) 
p=0.061 
-0.06
(7.75)
Base caseb  
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
6.64 
7.26 
(0.98, 53.68) 
p=0.052 
-0.01
(14.01)
-0.19
(7.79)
Scenario 1c  
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
RANO-HGG 
(IRC) 
NA 
NA 
10 
4.16 
(0.83, 21.01) 
p=0.084 
a: Unweighted.  
b: Adjustment for all mutually reported TEMs/PVs: age (median), prior surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky (combined; 
80-100).   
c: Adjustment for ranked variables by KOLs: age (median).  
d: OR>1 presents an advantage for tovorafenib; 95% CIs excluding 1 and a p-value <0.05 present a statistically 
significant result.   
e: Shifted null hypothesis δ of zero (or close to zero) and E-values >2 confirms robust model output (i.e., unaffected 
from unmeasured confounding). 
CI: confidence interval; CR: complete response; ESS: effective sample size; IRC, independent review committee; KOL: 
key opinion leader; NR: not reported; OR: odds ratio; ORR: objective response rate; PR: partial response; PV, 
prognostic value; TEM, treatment effect modifier.  


===== PAGE 148 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product 
9 
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma 
As of the 2 year data cutoff date (10 May 2024), the IRC-assessed ORR (CR or PR) for 
tovorafenib based on RANO-HGG criteria was 50.0% (95% ĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞŝŶƚĞƌǀĂů΀/΁: 18.7, 81.3) 
(4). The IRC-assessed ORR (CR or PR) for patients treated with dabrafenib + trametinib in the 
Bouffet 2023 study based on RANO-HGG criteria was 19.4% (95%/: 8.2, 36.0) (data-cut not 
reported) (2).  
In the population-adjusted indirect comparisons (PAICs) for ORR of tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + 
trametinib for patients > 1 year with the BRAF V600E mutation, the post-matching effective 
sample size (ESS) for tovorafenib was 6.64 for the base case (adjusted for all mutually reported 
TEM/PVs; age, prior surgery, Karnofsky/Lansky) and 10 for scenario analysis 1 (adjusted 
for ranked variables by KOLs; age), respectively, based on IRC-assessed RANO-HGG 
criteria (Table 2).  
In the naïve comparison (using IRC-assessed RANO-HGG criteria), tovorafenib had a numerically 
higher ORR compared with dabrafenib + trametinib (OR [95% CI]: 4.14 [0.93, 18.37]; p=0.061; δ 
[E-value] = -0.06 [7.75]). In both the base case analysis and scenario analysis 1, tovorafenib also 
had a numerically higher ORR compared with dabrafenib + trametinib (base case OR [95% CI]: 
7.26 [0.98, 53.68]; p=0.052; δ [E-value] = -0.01 [14.01] and scenario analysis 1 OR [95% CI]: 4.16 
[0.83, 21.01]; p=0.084; δ [E-value] = -0.19 [7.79]). These findings suggest a clinical benefit of 
tovorafenib vs. dabrafenib + trametinib in the BRAF V600E mutation population; however, 
observed CIs reflect statistical uncertainty primarily due to the small sample size and the 
reduced ESS following matching in the PAIC. When adjusting for age only in scenario analysis 1, 
the ESS remained similar to the original sample size, highlighting statistical precision and 
direction of the findings. Overall, the analysis demonstrated that covariate balance was 
achieved successfully – without impacting other baselines, although the reduced ESS 
highlights that results should be interpreted with caution given the limited precision. 
Robustness of the results was further explored through shifted null hypothesis testing. The 
estimated deltas of the shifted null hypotheses remained close to zero, suggesting that 
the findings are not sensitive to unmeasured confounding. Furthermore, the calculated E-
values were greater than 2, indicating that substantial unmeasured confounding would be 
required to completely negate the observed treatment effect. These metrics confirm that 
the results are directionally robust, despite the statistical imprecision reflected in the wide CIs 
due to the small sample size and ESS. 
It should be noted that the relative effectiveness results for ORR based on IRC-assessed RANO-
HGG criteria for PICO 5 are directionally different from the relative effectiveness results for ORR 
based on INV-assessed RANO-HGG criteria, which were added to the dossier as requested; the 
relative effectiveness results for ORR based on INV-assessed RANO-HGG criteria for PICO 5 
showed that tovorafenib had a numerically lower ORR compared with dabrafenib + trametinib 
(please refer to dossier Section 5.3, Ăppendix B.2 and appendix D.5 for detailed results of this 


===== PAGE 149 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product  
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma  
10 
 
analysis). The difference in direction of results for IRC-based and INV-based RANO-HGG analyses 
is caused by two key factors: 1) there is a one-event difference between IRC-assessed and INV-
assessed RANO-HGG results in FIREFLY-1, but the small sample size means that this translates to 
an ORR decrease from 50.0% per IRC assessment to 40.0% per INV assessment (4) and 2) there is 
a major increase in the ORR per INV assessment vs. IRC assessment based on RANO-HGG criteria 
in the Bouffet 2023 study (52.8% vs. 19.4%) (2). This magnitude of difference in ORR between IRC 
and INV assessment translates into a change in direction of the PAIC results. 
2. Response to requests for providing analysis and results of relative effects on ORR and PFS 
based on RANO-HGG (INV) criteria (investigator assessment), to facilitate comparison with 
Bouffet 2023 using consistent RANO-HGG (INV) definitions, (as requested above) using 
pooled data from Arm 1 and Arm 2 of FIREFLY-1 
The HTD would ﬁrst like to emphasize that, as speciﬁed in the FIREFLY-1 study protocol, there 
were no predeﬁned objecƟves to pool eﬃcacy data from Arm 1 and Arm 2. Therefore, the 
analyses requested by the assessors would rely on evidence that does not exist and was not 
submiƩed to the European Medicines Agency (EMA). In contrast to Arm 1, Arm 2 was designed 
as an expanded access cohort to provide conƟnued treatment and collect supplementary safety 
data, not for eﬃcacy evaluaƟon. Detailed raƟonales for the omission of Arm 2 eﬃcacy data from 
FIREFLY-1 in the European Medicines Agency (EMA) submission and the JCA dossier were 
previously provided in response to question 197 in the EMA Day 120 list of questions and the 
Commission’s Second Request on Arm 2 efficacy data. EMA rapporteur acknowledged the 
limitations of any Arm 2 efficacy analyses in early assessment, and no follow-up questions on this 
are expected in the Day 180 list of questions. There have been no requests from EMA to submit 
pooled Arm 1 and 2 efficacy data at any point in the process. 
While the assessors note that “Given the similarity of the patients in the full analysis sets of Arm 
1 and Arm 2, their relevance to the population defined by PICO 5, and the availability of RANO-
HGG (INV) based response assessments, pooling of results from these two arms is requested”, the 
HTD would like to clarify that there were differences in the patient populations enrolled in Arm 
1 and Arm 2. Arm 2 enrolled paƟents with low-grade glioma harboring acƟvaƟng RAF alteraƟons, 
including BRAF or CRAF/RAF1 fusions and BRAF V600 mutaƟons, and distinct inclusion and 
exclusion criteria between the two arms could introduce confounding variables and compromise 
the robustness of any efficacy analyses. The relevance of Arm 2 data in supporting efficacy claims 
for the intended labelled indication as per the assessment scope is therefore limited. 
In addition, as previously explained in responses to the Commission’s Second Request on Arm 2 
efficacy data from FIREFLY-1 and the first additional request on conducting ITC analyses vs. 
Bouffet 2023 using pooled efficacy data, the sponsor of FIREFLY-1 (Day One Biopharmaceuticals, 
Inc.) did not conduct formal efficacy analyses for Arm 2, and no Analysis Data Model (ADaM) 


===== PAGE 150 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product  
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma  
11 
 
datasets are available. The Arm 2 RANO-HGG (INV) data provided in earlier responses to the EMA 
Day 120 list of questions and the Commission’s Second Request were based on retrospective 
analyses using SDTM. These data were generated from a snapshot without full SDV. 
Consequently, to meet the assessors’ request, the HTD would need to conduct ITC analyses using 
mixed datasets (cleaned SDV’ed data for Arm 1 and uncleaned non-SDV’ed data for Arm 2). Such 
an approach would be highly inappropriate and inconsistent with ICH-E6(R3) guidelines (3).  
The limited relevance of including Arm 2 efficacy data in comparative analyses in the dossier is 
further supported by the JCA guidance document “Methodological Guideline for Quantitative 
Evidence Synthesis: Direct and Indirect Comparisons”, which states that “In conducting treatment 
comparisons, bias must be minimised. Bias reflects a systematic error in the results and results in 
deviation of the estimated treatment effectiveness from the true treatment effectiveness. When 
performing evidence synthesis, some key potential sources of bias should be considered. The first 
is bias in the results of the individual studies included in the review. If the individual study 
results are biased, then a synthesised summary of the individual results will also be biased and 
can yield misleading conclusions”. In this specific case, including Arm 2 efficacy data could bias 
the results of FIREFLY-1 and, consequently, the evidence synthesis/comparative efficacy 
analyses.  
Finally, the HTD’s understanding is that the assessors’ request to include such analyses in the 
dossier falls outside the scope of the JCA as deﬁned in RegulaƟon (EU) 2021/2282. As noted 
above, pooled Arm 1 and Arm 2 efficacy data do not exist and were not submiƩed to EMA. In 
accordance with Annex I, point (b), of RegulaƟon (EU) 2021/2282, the dossier shall include all up-
to-date published and unpublished informaƟon, data, analyses and other evidence as well as 
study reports and study protocols and analysis plans from studies with the medicinal product for 
which the health technology developer was a sponsor. The HTD has complied with these 
requirements and previously explained in response to the Commission’s Second Request why 
Arm 2 efficacy data were not suitable for inclusion in the dossier. This rationale also applies to 
pooled Arm 1 and Arm 2 efficacy data. Pooled Arm 1 and Arm 2 efficacy data do not exist and 
any analyses using such data cannot be expected to meaningfully strengthen the evidence base 
for the assessment. 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 151 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product  
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma  
12 
 
3. Response to request for conducting additional quality checks of safety outcomes for  
PICO 5 
As mentioned earlier, the HTD has conducted additional quality checks of the base case analyses 
for all safety outcomes, which led to identification of an error in the input data related to the two 
analyses of patients experiencing AEs leading to treatment discontinuation and treatment 
interruption, respectively; the event rates for these two outcomes in the Bouffet 2023 study 
(8/36 and 26/36) had been switched around in the analyses. Data accuracy of previously 
submitted results for all other safety outcomes were confirmed. Please find below a description 
of the additional quality check procedure conducted:  
x 
Two statisticians independently extracted and reviewed the data, then programmed and 
executed the analyses separately. 
x 
A reconciliation meeting was held to compare outputs. In cases of discrepancies, a third 
statistician was engaged to review and reconcile the programming code. 
x 
A fourth statistician conducted an independent analysis of raw rates to provide an extra 
layer of verification and confirm consistency with the other analyses. 
This multi-tiered approach — combining blinded programming with independent verification — 
provides strong assurance that the results are accurate for all outcomes.  
Open-envelope calculations for the unweighted results are provided in Table 3 for all safety 
analyses. 
Table 3: Summary of open-envelope calculations for the unweighted results for safety analyses 
Analyses 
AE Grade ≥3 
Serious AE 
AE leading to 
treatment 
discontinuation 
AE leading to treatment 
interruption 
Dabrafenib + 
trametinib  
(Bouffet 2023) 
22/36 
15/36 
8/36 
26/36 
Tovorafenib 
(FIREFLY-1) 
20/22 
13/22 
3/22 
15/22 
ORR rate 
6.36 
2.02 
0.55 
0.82 
SE* 
0.82 
0.55 
0.74 
0.59 
95% CI 
1.28, 31.53 
0.69, 5.94 
0.13, 2.35 
0.26, 2.62 
*SE calculated using normal approximation. 
Definitions: 
SE(logORRrate) = sqrt(1/a + 1/(n1-a) + 1/b + 1/(n2-b)) 
95% CI = EXP(log[ORRrate] +- NORM.S.INV(0.975) * SE(logORRrate) 


===== PAGE 152 =====
Dossier of the Joint Clinical Assessment of a Medicinal Product  
Tovorafenib (Ojemda®) – Ipsen Pharma  
13 
 
To address the assessors concerns on the reproducibility of the outcome for serious AEs, the HTD 
identified a need for clarifying the discrepancy between the FIREFLY-1 data presented for serious 
AEs in Appendix A.2, Table 17 and Appendix B.2, Table 32. Bouffet 2023 does not specifically 
report treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) but any adverse events. To ensure consistency with the 
AE definition used in Bouffet 2023(1), as understood from the publication, the AEs in FIREFLY-1 
were recalculated without restriction to TEAEs for the purpose of conducting the relative safety 
analyses vs. Bouffet 2023 (1). This translated into one more event for the serious adverse events 
in Appendix B.2, Table 32 compared to Appendix A.2, Table 17, which may explain why the 
assessors were not able to reproduce the effect estimates shown for this outcome. Only TEAE 
data have been included for FIREFLY-1 in Appendix A.2 to remain consistent with the clinical study 
report (CSR). The HTD apologises for any confusion this may have caused; additional language to 
clarify the approach taken have been added in Section 4.3.4.2 of the main document and in 
Appendixes A.2. and B.2.   
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 154 =====
Joint Clinical Assessment Report of a Medicinal Product 
Tovorafenib 
 
154 
D.2.3 Brief assessment by the assessors of the HTD's response to the second request for 
additional information 
In response to the assessors' second additional information request, the HTD provided an 
updated dossier. Several aspects of the response are commented on briefly: 
 
The HTD provided corrected safety analyses. 
 
The HTD provided analyses for ORR based on RANO-HGG criteria (using comparable 
definitions). 
 
The HTD further elaborates on why the requested pooled relative effectiveness analyses 
based on data from Arms 1 + 2 of FIREFLY-1 were not submitted:  
 The HTD mentions that there were no predefined objectives to pool efficacy data 
from Arm 1 and Arm 2. The assessors point out that even though a pooled analysis 
was not prespecified, it could still be informative, especially since the patient 
numbers for the relevant subpopulation are very low. Furthermore, according to the 
study protocol of FIREFLY-1, patients in Arm 2 underwent the same tumour 
assessment and were to be evaluated via the same statistical methods as described 
for Arm 1. 
 According to the HTD, unlike for Arm 1, no full source data verification was 
performed for Arm 2 and it would therefore not be methodologically appropriate to 
perform analyses with pooled data from both study arms. The assessors do not agree 
that the lack of full source data verification should prevent the analyses requested 
for the JCA. 
