STATE: Wyoming
GROUP: group-e
URL: https://www.uwyo.edu/dur/_files/minutes/2024/minutes021226.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.uwyo.edu/dur/_files/minutes/2024/minutes021226.pdf
SOURCE_ROLE: capped-crawl seed follow-up
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
WY P&T Committee Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 12, 2026 
Cheyenne, WY and via Zoom 
10 a.m – 1 p.m. 
Members present: Tracie Caller, Melinda Carroll, Evan Crump, Scott Johnston, Layne 
Lash, Kristen Lovas, Krystal Massey, Robert Monger, Danae Stampfli, Jill Van Cleave, 
Alyse Williams 
Ex-officio: Cori Cooper, Melissa Hunter, Tracey Haas 
Excused: Chris Mosier 
Guests: Collin Townsend, Melissa Eames, Kaila Baylie, Jesse Springer, Matt Robison 
(OptumRx), Corwyn Moss (OptumRx), Nikki Yost (OptumRx), Stephanie Russell 
(OptumRx), Bryan Dillon (Otsuka), Craig Fjeldheim (Abbvie), Mark Harmon (Abbvie), 
Andy Berg (Concis Labs), Matt Moran (Sanofi), Shawn Akey (Concis Labs), Ray Pirc 
(Novo Nordisk), Alex Kaiser (Bristol Myers Squibb), Jill Carroll (Bristol Myers Squibb), 
Natalie Rose (Gilead), Rochelle Yang (Teva), Lori Howarth (Bayer), Jeff Houston 
(Abbvie), Aimee Redhair (Biogen), Jenna Doerr (Artia), Jason Smith (Gilead), Veena 
Nowakowski (Genentech), Judi Ross (Pantherx Rare), Kurt Hendrickson (Abbvie), Matt 
John (Otsuka), Lynda Finch (Biogen), Terence Lee (Gilead), Jill Goldstein (Vida 
Ventures), Bryan Dillon (Otsuka), Maya Armstrong (Gene), Lindsey Walter (Novartis) 
Dr. Monger called the meeting to order at 10:00 a.m. 
Introductions were made. 
Approval of Minutes 
The minutes of the November 13, 2025 meeting were approved. 
Department of Health 
A. Pharmacy Program Manager Report: Go-live for the new PBA system has 
been pushed to April 15, 2026. If you start to notice something around April 15th that 
looks strange, please call the Help Desk. The GENEROUS model and the BALANCE 
model were announced by CMS in December. These are pricing models that the state has 
an option to participate in. WY has submitted a letter or notice of intent to participate in 
both. These are to create a most favored nation price point. There is still a fair amount of 
negotiation occurring. Offers are expected in July or August for the GENEROUS model. 
The Legislature is in session. The bill to move ivermectin over the counter failed 
introduction. An amendment to the WY Pharmacy Practice Act has been drafted. It 
decreases the age that pharmacists can provide vaccinations to 3 years and changes the 
definition of a pharmacist. 
B. Medical Director Report: House Bill 185 was introduced 
prohibiting the manufacturer and sale of Kratom. The Rural Health Transformation Plan 
continues. On December 29, WY received the notice of award. WY will receive $205M 
--- Page 2 ---
per year for 5 years with 6 years to spend it. There is a technology challenge bucket that 
providers can apply to. Health and diet models are available. Those will be set up to be 
short responses. There is a lot of money for critical care hospitals and EMS. We will be 
bound by what the statute allows and what the federal award allows. 
C. DUR Manager Report: Karly will be going on maternity leave mid-March. 
Old Business: 
Preventative treatments for migraine prevention were reviewed. Dr. Caller likes 
to see each as monotherapy before allowing the combination. A trial of two months of 
monotherapy with a CGRP will be required prior to the combination. 
New Business 
A. PA Criteria 
1. Review existing criteria 
i. The Hepatitis C agents currently have a one treatment per 
lifetime restriction. This will be removed going forward. Nikki Yost works with these 
patients through the Pharmacy Case Management program at Optum. Compliance is 
generally high. Sometimes the issue with compliance is eligibility. Some states have 
committed to a 2030 eradication plan. Jesse would like to discuss the idea of covering 
the entire course at one time so we avoid eligibility questions. 
2. New Drugs 
i. Lynkuet is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause. There is no comparative evidence. 
There was a motion and second to approve to indication and refer to the Department of 
Health for cost analysis. All were in favor. 
ii. Redemplo is indicated for the treatment of adults with familial 
chylomicronemia syndrome as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglycerides. There is no 
comparative evidence. There was a motion and second to approve to indication and refer 
to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in favor. 
iii. Voyxact is indicated to reduce proteinuria in adults with 
primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk for disease progression. There is 
no comparative evidence. There was a motion and second to approve to indication and 
refer to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in favor. 
iv. Omlonti is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular 
pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. There is evidence 
of increased adverse events with Omlonti. There is no comparative evidence. There was 
a motion and second to approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health for 
cost analysis. All were in favor. 
v. Cardamyst is indicated for conversion of acute symptomatic 
episodes of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm in adults. All were 
in favor. There was a motion and second to limit to indication. Dr. Johnston indicated 
that there is some concern of misdiagnosis. In the trial, PSVT had to be documented for 
at least 20 minutes. All were in favor. 
vi. Pivya is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary 
--- Page 3 ---
tract infection caused by susceptible isolates of E. coli, P. mirabilis, and S. saprophyticus 
in female patients >18 years of age. There is no comparative evidence. There was a 
motion and second to approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health for cost 
analysis. All were in favor. 
vii. Myqorzo is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic 
obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in adults to improve functional capacity and 
symptoms. There is poor comparative data. The systematic review showed that 
disopyramide was associated with the highest reduction in LVOT gradient at rest. There 
was a motion and second to approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health 
for cost analysis. All were in favor. 
3. Determine need for criteria 
4. Physician Administered Drugs 
i. Itvisma is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric 
patients >2 years of age with spinal muscular atrophy with confirmed mutation in SMN1 
gene. Dr. Stampfli has had one patient in her career. There was a motion and second to 
approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in 
favor. 
ii. Exdensur is indicated as add-on maintenance treatment of 
severe asthma in adults and pediatric patients >12 years of age with eosinophilic 
phenotype. There is no comparative evidence. There was a motion and second to 
approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in 
favor. 
iii. Yartemlea is indicated for the treatment of hematopoietic cell 
transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TA-TMA) in adult and pediatric 
patients >2 years of age. There was a motion and second to approve to indication and 
refer to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in favor. 
iv. Yeztugo is indicated for preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in 
adults and adolescents weighing >35 kg to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1. 
Natalie Rose (Gilead) provided public comment. Sunlenca is also lenacapavir which is 
approved for treatment of HIV infection with multi-drug resistance. Yeztugo does not 
have to be used in combination with other medications. All individuals should be 
screened for HIV-1 prior to each initiation and each subsequent injection. If someone 
skips their 6-month injection and comes in a year later, they do have to start over. If a 
patient is going to be out long-term, they can move to a weekly tablet in the meantime. 
There is no evidence showing better compliance with 6-month injections vs. daily or 
weekly dosing. Layne indicated that every 6-month dosing would dramatically improve 
compliance in her transient population. Dr. Caller sees better compliance in her MS 
patients, especially in patients who have housing and transportation insecurities. Dr. 
Haas indicated that two young patients were recently diagnosed with HIV infection. 
Both had been prescribed oral PrEP and did not take them. Long-acting injectables have 
vastly improved compliance with antipsychotic medications. There is no comparative 
evidence. There is a potential benefit for compliance. There was a motion and second to 
--- Page 4 ---
approve to indication and refer to the Department of Health for cost analysis. All were in 
favor. 
Other: During a previous discussion, it was determined that dietary counseling should be 
required prior to approval of a GLP-1 agent for weight loss in pediatric patients. The 
Department of Health will be applying this to all weight loss agents, including stimulants. 
There being no further business, the open portion of the meeting adjourned at 11:15 am 
and the Committee met in closed session. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Aimee Lewis 
WYDUR Manager