STATE: Oregon\nURL: https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/PTDocuments/P%26T%20Operating%20Procedures.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/Pages/Pharmacy-Therapeutics-Committee.aspx\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nOREGON HEALTH AUTHORITY 
DRUG USE REVIEW/PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS COMMITTEE 
 
OPERATING PROCEDURES 
Updated: December 2023 
 
MISSION: 
To encourage safe, effective, and innovative drug policies that promote high value medications for patients 
served by the Oregon Health Plan (OHP) and other health care programs under the Oregon Health Authority 
(OHA) by evidence-based committee review of drug use research, clinical guidance and education. 
 
DUTIES: 
As defined by Oregon Revised Statutes (Chapter 414) the Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee was 
established to perform functions previously fulfilled by the Drug Use Review Board and Health Resources 
Commission.  Responsibilities of the P&T committee include: 
1. Evaluate evidence-based reviews of prescription drug classes or individual drugs to assist in making 
recommendations to the OHA for drugs to be included on the preferred drug list (PDL).  
a. The P&T Committee may direct a Subcommittee to prepare these reviews. 
2. Advise the OHA on administration of Federally mandated Medicaid retrospective and prospective drug use 
review (DUR) programs which includes recommending utilization controls, prior authorization 
requirements, quantity limits and other conditions for coverage. 
3. Recommendations will be based on evaluation of the available evidence regarding safety, efficacy and value 
of prescription drugs, as well as the ability of Oregonians to access prescriptions that are appropriate for 
their clinical conditions. 
4. Publish and distribute educational information to prescribers and pharmacists regarding the committee 
activities and the drug use review programs. Meeting materials including written public comments, 
recordings, documents, and minutes remain publicly available online after the meeting. Comments are 
subject to Oregon public records law and should not disclose identifiable, personal health information.  
 
5. Collaborate with the Health Evidence Review Commission (HERC) on topics involving prescription drugs 
that require further considerations under the purview of the HERC. 
 
6. Consider input from Mental Health Clinical Advisory Group (MHCAG) on topics involving mental health. 
The Mental Health Clinical Advisory Group can make recommendations to both the Oregon Health 
Authority and the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee for: 
a. Implementation of evidence-based algorithms. 
b. Any changes needed to any preferred drug list used by the authority. 
c. Practice guidelines for the treatment of mental health disorders with mental health drugs. 
d. Coordinating the work of the group with an entity that offers a psychiatric advice hotline. 
 
7. Guide and approve meeting agendas. 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n8. Periodically review and update operating procedures and evidence grading methods as needed. 
 
 
AD HOC SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT INVOLVEMENT: 
1. The Director shall appoint an ad hoc expert to the P&T Committee when: 
a. The P&T Committee determines it lacks current clinical or treatment expertise with respect to a 
particular therapeutic class; or  
b. An interested outside party requests appointment and demonstrates to the satisfaction of Oregon 
Health Authority that the P&T Committee lacks necessary clinical knowledge or subject matter 
expertise with respect to a particular therapeutic class. All such requests must be made at least 21 
calendar days before the P&T Committee meeting at which the class will be discussed. 
c. Requests for consideration of subject matter expert appointment may be sent by email to 
OHA.pharmacy@odhsoha.oregon.gov. Requests must identify the clinical topic under review and 
rational for why an ad hoc subject matter expert would be necessary to add to the P&T Committee.  
d. Ad hoc subject matter experts will have the same requirements, duties, and responsibilities as current 
P&T Committee members.  
e. Subject matter experts must be licensed and actively practicing in Oregon. 
 
2. The subject matter experts shall have full voting rights with respect to the PDL drugs for which they have 
been selected and appointed including all utilization controls, prior authorization requirements, review of 
confidential pricing information or other conditions for the inclusion of a drug on the PDL. The subject 
matter experts may participate but may not vote in any other activities of the committee during the meeting. 
3. P&T Committee staff also may engage relevant health care professionals with clinical specialty to review 
evidence summary documents prepared for the P&T Committee, in addition to the ad hoc subject matter 
experts, if needed. 
 
CONDUCT OF MEETINGS: 
1. All meetings and notice of meetings will be held in compliance with the Oregon Public Meetings Law. 
2. The P&T Committee will elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to conduct the meetings.   Elections 
shall be held the first meeting of the calendar year. 
3. Quorum consists of 6 permanent members of the P&T Committee.  Quorum is required for any official vote 
or action to take place throughout a meeting. 
 
4. All official actions must be taken by a public vote.  Any recommendation from the Committee requires an 
affirmative vote of a majority of the Committee members. 
5. The committee shall meet in executive session for purposes of reviewing the prescribing or dispensing 
practices of individual prescribers or pharmacists; reviewing profiles of individual patients; and reviewing 
confidential drug pricing information to inform the recommendations regarding inclusion of drugs on the 
Practitioner-Managed Prescription Drug Plan (PMPDP) or any preferred drug lists adopted by the OHA. 
 
6. Meetings will be held at least quarterly but the Committee may be asked to convene up to monthly by the 
call of the OHA Director or a majority of the members of the Committee. DUR programs will be the focus 
of the meeting quarterly. 
 
7. Agenda items for which there are no recommended changes based on the clinical evidence may be included 
in a consent agenda.   
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\na. Items listed under the consent agenda will be approved by a single motion without separate 
discussion. If separate discussion is desired, that item will be removed from the consent agenda and 
placed on the regular business agenda. 
b. Consent agenda items may include (but are not limited to) meeting minutes, drug class literature 
scans, and abbreviated drug reviews for unfunded conditions.  
 
8. The Oregon Health Authority and P&T Committee are committed to creating a public meeting environment 
that is inclusive, welcoming, and respectful for all P&T Committee members, staff, and public attendees. 
Some general guidance and expectations for respectful meeting conduct include: 
a. Attendees of any P&T Committee meeting are expected to behave in a professional, honest, and ethical 
manner. 
b. Abusive, aggressive, and disrespectful language or behavior is not welcome at meetings. Staff have the 
authority to mute meeting participants or remove them from the meeting if they engage in this behavior. 
c. If you have a concern regarding your experience during a meeting, please help staff create an inclusive 
environment by sharing your experience, concerns, and feedback. Feedback can be submitted to 
osupharm.di@oregonstate.edu. 
 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY: 
The P&T Committee will function in a way that ensures the objectivity and credibility of its recommendations.   
1. All potential initial committee members, staff members and consultants, future applicants, expert or peer 
reviewers, and ad-hoc subject matter  experts selected for individual P&T Committee meetings are subject 
to the Conflict of Interest disclosure requirements in ORS Chapter 244 and are required to submit a 
completed disclosure form as part of the appointment process and annually during their appointment. Any 
changes in status must be updated promptly. 
 
2. Staff members are required to have no financial conflicts related to any pharmaceutical industry business for 
duration of work on P&T projects. 
 
3. All disclosed conflicts will be considered before an offer of appointment is made. 
4. If any material conflict of interest is not disclosed by a member of the P&T Committee on his or her 
application or prior to participation in consideration of an affected drug or drug class or other action of the 
Committee, that person will not be able to participate in voting decisions of the affected drug or drug class 
and may be subject to dismissal. Circumstances in which conflicts of interest not fully disclosed for peer 
reviewers, ad-hoc experts, or persons providing public comment will be addressed on a case by case basis. 
5. Any person providing public testimony are also requested to disclose all conflicts of interest including, but 
not limited to, industry funded research prior to any testimony pertaining to issues before the P&T 
Committee. This includes any relationships or activities which could be perceived to have influenced, or 
that would give the appearance of potentially influencing testimony.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
1. The P&T Committee meetings will be open to the public. 
 
2. The P&T Committee shall provide appropriate opportunity for public testimony at each meeting. 
 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\na. Testimony can be submitted in writing or provided in-person. Persons planning to provide oral 
testimony during the meeting are requested to sign up and submit a conflict of interest form no later 
than 24 hours prior to the start of the meeting.  
 
b. Maximum of 3 minutes per speaker/institution per agenda item  
 
i. Information that is most helpful to the Committee is evidence-based and comparative 
research, limited to new information not already being reviewed by the Committee.  
ii. Oral presentation of information from FDA-approved labeling (i.e., Prescribing Information 
or “package insert”) is not helpful to the Committee. 
 
c. Please address written testimony related to final posted documents to the P&T Committee. Interested 
parties may submit written testimony on agenda items being considered by the P&T committee 
through the public comment link found on the P&T Committee website: 
(http://oregonstate.edu/tools/mailform?to=osupharm.di@oregonstate.edu&recipient=Drug+Use+Res
earch+and+Management).  Written testimony that includes clinical information should be submitted 
at least 2 weeks prior to the scheduled meeting to allow staff and Committee members time to 
review the information.  
 
d. Written documents provided during scheduled public testimony time of P&T Committee meetings 
will be limited to 2 pages of new information that was not included in previous reviews.  Prescribing 
Information is not considered new information; only clinically relevant changes made to Prescribing 
Information should be submitted. 
 
e. If committee members have additional questions or request input from public members during 
deliberations after the public comment period, members of the public may be recognized at the 
discretion of the committee chair to answer questions of the committee or provide additional 
commentary.  
 
3. Written public comment is welcome from all interested parties on draft documents posted prior to the 
meeting. 
a. Written public comments submitted during the draft comment period are only considered by staff in 
order to prepare final documents. Only written public comment submitted based on final documents 
will be submitted to the P&T Committee for consideration. 
b. Interested parties may submit written testimony on posted draft documents through the public 
comment link found on the P&T Committee website: 
(http://oregonstate.edu/tools/mailform?to=osupharm.di@oregonstate.edu&recipient=Drug+Use+Res
earch+and+Management).   
 
REVIEW STANDARDS AND PREFERRED SOURCES OF EVIDENCE 
1. The P&T Committee and department staff will evaluate drug and drug class reviews based on sound 
evidence-based research and processes widely accepted by the medical profession. These evidence 
summaries inform the recommendations for management of the PDL and clinical prior authorization 
criteria. These methods support the principles of evidence-based medicine and will continue to evolve to 
best fit the needs of the Committee and stay current with best practices. For detailed description of review 
standards, preferred sources of evidence, and evidence grading methods, see Quality Assessment Tool and 
Evidence Grading Methods.  
 
2. Final documents as outlined in Chapter 414 of the Oregon Revised Statutes shall be made publicly available 
at least 30 days prior to review by the P&T Committee. Posted documents will include the agenda for the 
meeting, a list of drug classes to be considered, and background materials and supporting documentation 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nwhich have been provided to committee members with respect to drugs and drug classes that are before the 
committee for review. 
 
 
DRUG AND DRUG CLASS REVIEWS: 
1. Drug Class Reviews and New Drug Evaluations: 
a. The P&T Committee will review drugs and drug classes that have not been previously reviewed 
for PDL inclusion or for clinical PA criteria and will be prioritized based on: 
i. Potential benefit or risk 
ii. Use or potential use in covered population 
iii. Potential for inappropriate use 
iv. Alternatives available 
v. OHP coverage based on opportunities for cost savings, to ensure medically appropriate 
drug use, or address potential safety risks.  
b. The P&T Committee will make a reasonable effort to perform a timely review of new FDA-
approved drug products following their market release, when they are a new molecular entity 
and are candidates for coverage under the pharmacy benefit. 
i. Until new drugs are reviewed by the P&T Committee, drugs meeting the following 
criteria will be reviewed to ensure they are used appropriately for an FDA-approved or 
compendia-supported indication, with FDA-approved dosing, and that the indication is 
funded by the OHP:  
a. A new drug in a drug class with clinical prior authorization criteria. 
b. A new drug used for a non-funded condition on the HERC Prioritized List 
of Health Services. 
c. A new drug not in a PDL class with existing PA criteria identified by the 
reviewing pharmacist during the weekly claim processing drug file load 
costing more than $5,000 per claim or $5,000 per month. 
c. Line Extension and Combination Product Policy for existing drugs or active ingredients 
i. Line extensions include new strengths or new formulations of an existing drug. 
1. When a new strength or formulation becomes available for a drug previously 
reviewed for the PDL and has PA criteria and the new product does not 
significantly differ from the existing drug based on clinical evaluation, the same 
utilization restrictions as the existing drug will apply until the new strength or 
formulation is presented to the P&T Committee for review. 
2. If a new strength or formulation becomes available for an existing preferred drug 
and the new product significantly differs from the existing medication in clinical 
uses or cost, the drug will not be preferred until the drug is reviewed by the P&T 
Committee.  
ii. When a new combination product becomes available that is a formulation of one or more 
drugs that have been reviewed for the PDL, the product will be designated a non-
preferred drug until the P&T Committee reviews the combination product. 
iii. When a product becomes available that is a biosimilar for one or more drugs that have 
been reviewed for the PDL, where applicable, the product will be designated a non-
preferred drug until the P&T Committee reviews the product. A complete list of 
biological products and biosimilar products can be accessed at the FDA’s Purple Book 
website.  
iv. Over-the-counter (OTC) formulations: 
1. When a product becomes available that is an over-the-counter formulation, the 
product will be added to the fee-for-service (FFS) benefit if it falls within an 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nexisting PDL class previously reviewed by P&T. The policy outlined above for 
line extensions will apply. Exceptions to the standard rebate process will be 
determined by the Oregon Health Authority on a case-by-case basis based on 
access, availability, and affordability. 
2. If OTC formulations that are not in an existing PDL class or are not in a drug 
category currently on the OTC list, then the product will be designated as not 
covered until the P&T Committee reviews the product. 
 
2. Drug Class Literature Scans and Abbreviated Drug Reviews: 
a. Literature of drug classes that have previously been reviewed for the PDL will be scanned and 
evaluated as needed to assess the need to update drug policies based on clinically relevant 
information and significant changes in costs published since the last review. 
b. Abbreviated drug reviews will evaluate drugs for unfunded conditions. Evidence supporting 
these reports is derived primarily from information in the product labeling.\n