STATE: Oregon\nURL: https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/PTDocuments/PT-Application.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/Pages/Pharmacy-Therapeutics-Committee.aspx\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\nPharmacy & Therapeutics Committee 
NOTICE AND APPLICATION TO PARTICIPATE
Dear Potential Clinical and Non-Clinical Advisory Committee Members, 
Thank you for your interest in joining the Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) Committee. This advisory committee serves an 
important role for the Oregon Health Authority (OHA). The P&T Committee’s legislative mandate is to provide 
recommendations which include: 
•
Evaluating evidence-based reviews of prescription drug classes or individual drugs to assist in making
recommendations to the OHA for drugs to be included on the preferred drug list (PDL).
•
Advising the OHA on administration of Federally mandated Medicaid retrospective and prospective drug use
review (DUR) programs which includes recommending utilization controls, prior authorization requirements,
quantity limits and other conditions for coverage.
•
Making recommendations based on evaluation of the available evidence regarding safety, efficacy and value of
prescription drugs, as well as the ability of Oregonians to access prescriptions that are appropriate for their
clinical conditions.
•
Publish and distribute educational information to prescribers and pharmacists regarding the committee
activities and the drug use review programs.
•
Collaborating with the Health Evidence Review Commission (HERC) on topics involving prescription drugs that
require further considerations under the purview of the HERC.
The committee is made up of 11 members and the commitment is for 3 consecutive years, with a legislatively mandated 
meeting frequency of no less than quarterly, but historically has been meeting every other month by teleconference and 
webinar. The legislature prescribed very specific representation on this 11 member committee. The Application below 
outlines the various categories that could describe your professional or personal situation. Please indicate all categories 
that describe your experience. 
Please include the following with this application: 
1)
Conflict of Interest declaration is required (attached).
2)
Current resume/CV.
First Name: 
Last Name: 
Specialty/Licensure (if Applicable): 
Email: 
Phone Number: 
Address: 
I am interested in being considered for appointment and can represent the following: 
Physician licensed and actively engaged in the practice of medicine or osteopathic medicine in Oregon 
Pharmacist licensed in and actively practicing pharmacy in Oregon 
Public representative who is neither a physician nor pharmacist. 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n1.
Why are you interested in participating as a member of the P&T Committee?
2.
What qualifications and experience do you bring to this committee?
3.
How will you manage your disagreement with OHA, or other committee members in evaluating evidence or
decisions?
4.
Will you be able to commit to attending by teleconference and webinar in person a minimum of a 4 hour
meeting every other month for the next 3 years?
5.
Are you interested in being chairperson or vice-chairperson?
Y 
N 
EMAIL COMPLETE FORM, CONFLICT OF INTEREST DECLARATION, AND RESUME TO: OHA.Pharmacy@odhsoha.oregon.gov 
Page 2 of 2 
Y
N
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\nPage 1 of 4 
Pharmacy and Therapeutics 
Committee Member 
The Oregon Health Authority asks that you complete this Conflict of Interest form to help us in the 
decision making process for appointments to the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee or any of its 
subcommittees. 
If you are selected to serve on the P& T Committee or its subcommittees, you will be subject to 
Conflict of Interest disclosure requirements in ORS Chapter 244 as a public official. 
This form is due on an annual basis, although you should update the form with the OHA within 15 
days of a material change in the information provided to the Commission. You may wish to retain a 
copy of this form. 
Your Name (Please Print) 
(Date signed) 
1. BUSINESS OFFICE OR DIRECTORSHIP; ASSUMED BUSINESS NAME
If you or a member of your household was an officer or director of a business during the immediate preceding
calendar year, please indicate the following:
Title of Office/Directorship 
Business Name & Address 
Business Type 
If you or a member of your household did business under an assumed business name during the immediate 
preceding calendar year, show the following information: 
Name of Business 
Business Address 
Business Type 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST FORM 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\nPage 2 of 4 
2. HONORARIUM
If you received an honorarium of more than $50 during the immediate preceding calendar year, please list all
such honoraria:
Received From 
Address 
Describe Appearance/Service 
3. SOURCES OF INCOME (Be specific as to identity & description of each source)
Identify the income source(s) which produced 10% or more of the combined total gross household income
received by you or a member of your household during the immediate preceding calendar year. If you receive
compensation for being a public official, include such compensation as a source of income.
Name & Address of Source 
Describe Source 
Received By 
Does an income source listed above do business, or could it reasonably be expected to do business, with the 
public body you wish to serve or over which you may have authority? Yes 
No 
Does an income source listed above have a legislative or administrative interest in the public body you wish to 
serve or over which you may have authority? Yes 
No 
4. SHARED BUSINESS WITH LOBBYIST
If you or a member of your household shared a partnership, joint venture, or similar substantial economic
relationship with a paid lobbyist during the immediate preceding calendar year, or were employed by or
employed a paid lobbyist during that time, please list the following: (Note: owning stock in a publicly traded
company in which the lobbyist also owns stock is not a relationship which requires disclosure):
Name of Lobbyist 
Business Name 
Business Type 
PROVIDE THE INFORMATION REQUESTED IN ITEMS 5, 6, 7 ONLY IF: 
A. It involves an individual or business that did business with, or reasonably could be expected to do business
with, the public body you wish to serve or over which you may have authority; or
B. The information requested involves an individual or business with a legislative or administrative interest in
the public body you wish to serve or over which you may have authority.
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\nPage 3 of 4 
5. INCOME OF MORE THAN $500
List each source (not amounts) of income over $500, other than a source listed under question 3 on this
form, which you or a member of your household received during the immediate preceding calendar year:
Income Source 
Address 
Description 
6. BUSINESS INVESTMENT OF MORE THAN $1,000
If you or a member of your household had a personal, beneficial interest or investment in a business during the
immediate preceding calendar year of more than $1,000, list the following (DO NOT list the amount of the
investment. DO NOT include individual items in a mutual fund or blind trust, a time or demand deposit in a
financial institution, shares in a credit union, or the cash surrender value of life insurance):
Business Name & Address 
Brief Description of Business 
7. SERVICE FEE OF MORE THAN $1,000
List each person for whom you performed a service for a fee of more than $1,000 in the immediate preceding
calendar year. (DO NOT list fees if you are prohibited from doing so by law or professional ethics including
professional ethics for attorneys, physicians, psychologists, certified public accountants, etc.):
Name 
Name 
Name 
Signature 
Date 
Please return by email to: 
OHA-Pharmacy Program 
OHA.Pharmacy@odhsoha.oregon.gov 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\nPage 4 of 4 
 
From the Oregon Government Ethics Commission (https://www.oregon.gov/ogec/Pages/Guide-for-Public-Officials.aspx accessed 10/20/2020) 
 
Guide for Public Officials 
This guide has been approved by the Oregon Government Ethics Commission pursuant to ORS 244.320. ORS 
244.320 requires this publication to explain in understandable terms the requirements of Oregon Government 
Ethics law and the Oregon Government Ethics Commission’s interpretation of those requirements. Toward that 
end, statutes and rules have been summarized and paraphrased in this guide. Therefore, the discussion in this guide 
should not be used as a substitute for a review of the specific statutes and rules. 
Any public official, business or any person shall not be liable under ORS Chapter 244 for any action or transaction 
carried out in accordance with Commission opinions set forth in this guide. “In accordance with” the opinions 
means that the fact circumstances of any action or transaction for which any public official, business or person shall 
not be liable must be the same fact circumstances for an action or transaction described in this guide as the basis for 
an opinion in this guide. 
There may be other laws or regulations not within the jurisdiction of the Commission that apply to actions or 
transactions described in this guide. 
 
Click here to access the Guide to Public Officials 
 
 
Please NOTE: A new updated version of the Guide for Public Officials will be available soon.\n