STATE: Oregon\nURL: https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/PTDocuments/PT-Committee-Bios.pdf\nSTATUS: 200\nCONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf\nSOURCE_ROLE: linked from https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HPA/DSI-Pharmacy/Pages/Pharmacy-Therapeutics-Committee.aspx\n\n\n\n--- Page 1 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
 
 
Oregon Drug Use Review/Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee 
 Member Biographies 
 
F. Douglas Carr, MD, MMM  
Dr. Carr joined Umpqua Health Alliance in July 2107 as Medical Director of the CCO that 
serves Douglas County.  His prior experience in the Northwest includes leadership roles at 
PeaceHealth Medical Group and the Eugene VA Healthcare Center.    
Dr. Carr previously worked for 24 years at Billings Clinic (Montana), where he served in various 
clinical and management roles in regional operations and education. His diverse experiences 
there include leadership responsibilities in the first Medicare ACO demonstration, regional 
telemedicine program, FM and IM residencies, FQHC, public health, provider-sponsored 
health insurance, as well as statewide PCMH initiatives and state employee pharmacy plan.  
Dr. Carr has served on P&T committees at numerous organizations over the last 35 years.  
He received his medical degree from Northwestern University - Chicago, IL, completed 
internships at New Rochelle Medical Center, NY, and Metropolitan Medical Center, NY and 
residency at Kaiser Foundation Hospital in San Francisco, CA. He is a Fellow of the American 
College of Physicians and completed his Master of Medical Management from Tulane 
University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine.  
 
 
\n\n--- Page 2 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
Pat DeMartino, MD, MPH  
Dr. DeMartino is a pediatric hematologist/oncologist and assistant professor at Oregon Health 
& Science University. He is the associate program director for the hematology oncology 
fellowship. His academic interests include health services research, health economics, and 
equity.  
 
Russell Huffman, DNP, PMHNP 
Russell Huffman is a psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner at Salem Health, embedded 
in the primary care medical group. Past experience includes teaching at Gonzaga University; 
working in community mental health, predominantly with people with severe mental illness 
and/or who are houseless; and working in the inpatient psychiatry unit at Portland Adventist 
Medical Center. He is a member of the Willamette Health Council's Clinical Advisory Panel and 
has published in the Journal of the American Psychiatric Nurses Association. 
 
CDR Timothy G. Langford, Pharm D, BCPS, USPHS 
Dr. Langford, a board-certified pharmacist, is the Pharmacy Director for the Klamath Tribes in 
Klamath County Oregon. As a Commissioned Officer in the US Public Health Service, he has 
practiced clinical pharmacy and provided administrative leadership over the last 18 years. He 
provides both direct patient care and population health through systems based approaches; 
along with administrative oversight of pharmacy services. 
 
\n\n--- Page 3 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
Cat Livingston, MD, MPH  
Dr. Livingston graduated from Harvard Medical School and completed residency training in 
Family Medicine as well as Preventive Medicine at Oregon Health & Science University. She is 
the Medical Director of Health Share of Oregon. Concurrently, she is also an adjunct Associate 
Professor at OHSU and continues to see patients in a Federally Qualified Health Center. 
Previously, she worked for 10 years for the Health Evidence Review Commission translating 
evidence into coverage policy. Her research interests include evidence-based policy, Medicaid, 
substance use disorder, and population health. 
 
Eriko Onishi, MD, MCR, PhD  
Dr. Onishi graduated from Tsukuba School of Medicine in Japan. She came to the US to obtain 
Family Medicine (FM) Residency training, after which she practiced in a community in rural 
Indiana until joining the Oregon Health and Science University (OHSU) Department of Family 
Medicine in October 2011.  
Dr Onishi has been practicing FM both at OHSU and as part of the Palliative Care Medicine 
team at Salem Hospital in Salem, OR. She is also the Medical Director of a Portland area 
nursing home.  
Dr Onishi has been serving as a member of the State of Oregon Advance Directive Adopted 
Committee since April 2019, where she and the other committee members have worked to 
revise the Oregon state Advance Directive (AD) form and are working to educate Oregonians 
about Advance Care Planning and the revised Oregon AD. 
\n\n--- Page 4 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
Dr Onishi is an Assistant Professor at the OHSU Department of Family Medicine and a Clinical 
Associate Professor of General Medicine at Tsukuba School of Medicine, where she works to 
teach and train FM residents and medical students in the US and Japan.  
 
Stacy Ramirez, Pharm.D.  
Dr. Ramirez is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Pharmacy Practice at the 
Oregon State University College of Pharmacy. She joined the faculty in 2006 following nearly 
20 years in community pharmacy practice and management. Her clinical focus is advancing 
the role of pharmacists in improving health outcomes for underserved patients and promoting 
the role of the pharmacist in primary care. She serves as the Director of Pharmacy and 
practices as a Clinical Pharmacist for the Community Health Centers of Benton and Linn 
Counties.  Her courses in the College of Pharmacy include Healthcare Systems (Public 
Health), Pharmacy Management and a wellness/yoga elective. She serves on the College’s 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee and is the Chapter Advisor for Phi Lambda Sigma, a 
pharmacy fraternity focused on leadership. She is married with two children. In her free time, 
she practices Baptiste Yoga and is a Level 1 Certified Baptiste Yoga instructor.  
 
Edward M. Saito, PharmD, BCACP, DPLA 
Dr. Saito is an Associate Professor with Pacific University School of Pharmacy and clinical 
pharmacist with Virginia Garcia Memorial Health Center, a local FQHC with a special emphasis 
on serving seasonal and migrant farmworkers and others with barriers to receiving health 
\n\n--- Page 5 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
care.  As a pharmacist in primary care, he works alongside other clinicians to collaboratively 
provide medication management services for chronic conditions and serves as a drug 
information expert.  He also works closely with patients and their families to provide education 
on nutrition and wellness and assists them with accessing and understanding their 
medications.  He is a Board-Certified Ambulatory Care Pharmacist. 
 
Bridget Bradley, PharmD, BCPP 
Bridget Bradley, PharmD, BCPP Bridget Bradley, PharmD, BCPP is a clinical pharmacist at 
Kaiser Northwest in the psychiatry department. She is a Board Certified Psychiatric Pharmacist 
and manages medications for a variety of mental health disorders. She works collaboratively 
with all team members to ensure patients are educated about their medications and proper 
use. 
 
Jeanne Savage, MD 
Jeanne Savage, MD is Chief Medical Officer, Trillium Community Health Plan and Health Net 
Health Plan of Oregon, Inc. 
Dr. Jeanne Savage is Chief Medical Officer of Trillium Community Health Plan and Health Net 
Health Plan of Oregon, Inc., subsidiaries of Centene Corporation. Dr. Savage joined Trillium 
and Health Net in January 2020 and provides strategic leadership in the areas of quality, 
health equity and patient-centered best practices to these health plans offering Medicaid, 
Medicare, and commercial insurance throughout the state of Oregon. 
\n\n--- Page 6 ---\n 
 
Oregon Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee Member Biographies                           Last updated 12/05/2024 
 
 
Dr. Savage has extensive experience in family practice and hospital management, and 
throughout her career she has demonstrated a passion for providing integrated care to 
historically marginalized and underserved populations. Prior to her role at Trillium and Health 
Net, Dr. Savage was the Chief Medical Officer at Willamette Valley Community Health, a 
coordinated care organization in Salem, Oregon. She has also served as a Co-Medical 
Director at Salud Medical Center in Woodburn, Oregon, and she held patient medical care 
positions at Ventura County Medical Center in Ventura, California. Dr. Savage earned a Doctor 
of Medicine from Oregon Health and Science University and a Bachelor of Science in Biology 
from the University of Oregon. She speaks fluent English and Spanish. 
In addition to her role at Trillium and Health Net, Dr. Savage serves as a Volunteer Clinical 
Assistant Professor in the Department of Family Medicine at Oregon Health and Science 
University and continues to work with the Yakima Valley Farm Workers Clinic, Salud Medical 
Center in Woodburn, Oregon.  
Dr. Savage and her family reside in Portland, Oregon. She enjoys spending time with her 
family, coaching basketball, trail running, skiing, rafting, traveling, and reading or listening to 
books.\n