STATE: Maine
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/dam/ffs-medicare/me/dur/mainedur12082020meetingminutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/mainecarepdl/en/drug-utilization-review
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: December 8, 2020
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Maine Department of Health and Human Services 
Office of MaineCare Services - Pharmacy Unit 
11 State House Station 
Augusta, Maine 04333-0011 
Toll Free: (866) 796-2463; TTY: Dial 711 (Maine Relay) 
Fax: (207) 287-8601 
Janet T. Mills 
Governor 
Jeanne M. Lambrew, Ph.D. 
Commissioner 
TO: 
Maine Drug Utilization Review Board 
DATE: 12/11/20 
RE: Maine DUR Board Meeting minutes from December 8, 2020 
ATTENDANCE 
PRESENT 
ABSENT 
EXCUSED 
Linda Glass, MD 
X 
Lisa Wendler, Pharm. D., Clinical Pharmacy Specialist, 
Maine Medical CTR 
X 
Mike Antoniello, MD 
X 
Kathleen Polonchek, MD 
X 
Kenneth McCall, PharmD 
X 
Erin Ackley, PharmD. 
X 
Corinn Martineau, PharmD. 
X 
Non –Voting 
Mike Ouellette, R.Ph., Change Healthcare 
X 
Jacquelyn Hedlund, MD, Change Healthcare 
X 
Jan Wright, MaineCare Interim Pharmacy Director 
X 
Fran Jensen, MaineCare Medical Director 
X 
Guests of the Board: Ed Bosshart, PharmD 
CALL TO ORDER: 6:30PM 
Jan Wright called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Tom Arnhart from Ultragenyx Pharmaceuticals: Highlighted the attributes of Dojolvi. 
Nikki Faulkner: Highlighted the attributes of Biqsimi. 
Tom Algozzine from Novartis: Highlighted the attributes of Kesimpta. 
Ken Smith from Genetech: Highlighted the attributes of Evrysdi, Enspryng and Polivy. 
Benjamin Yungher from NS Pharma: Highlighted the attributes of Viltepso. 
Brian Denger: Highlighted the attributes of Spravato. 
OLD BUSINESS 
DUR MINUTES 
The October DUR meeting minutes were accepted. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
MAINECARE UPDATE 
On Emessage, 340B payment mythology was sent out on December 8, 2020 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
REVISED CLINICAL CRITERIA/PREFERRED REVIEW 
None at this time. 
2021 RETRODUR CALENDAR 
 March 10, 2021: 
o Data presentation: Influenza Vaccination Rates 
o Introduce: Hydroxychloroquine use Pre and Post Covid-19 
 June 9, 2021: 
o Data presentation: Hydroxychloroquine use Pre and Post Covid-19 
o Introduce: Long-acting Injectable Antipsychotics 
 September 8, 2021: 
o Data presentation: Long-acting Injectable Antipsychotics 
o Introduce: Herpes Zoster vaccination rates 
 October 13, 2021: 
o Data presentation: 2022 Potential RetroDUR Initiatives 
o Introduce: HPV vaccination rates 
 December 8, 2021: 
o Data presentation: Herpes Zoster vaccination rates 
o Data presentation: HPV vaccination rates 
o Introduce: Codeine use in Pediatric Population 
 2022 Meeting #1: 
o Data presentation: Codeine use in Pediatric Population 
NEW BUSINESS 
DATA PRESENTATION: CHANTIX USE 
The benefits of smoking cessation are obvious. While some people quit on their own, either by tapering 
or going “cold turkey”, many will require the aid of counseling, medications or both. It has been 
demonstrated that of those who use medication, long-term abstinence often requires counseling in 
addition to medication. Luckily, several medications have been used successfully, including nicotine 
replacement products (short- and long-acting), bupropion and varenicline (Chantix). While initially there 
was concern that Chantix was associated with neuropsychiatric side effects, including risk of suicide, a 
recent, large study (EAGLES trial of 8000 smokers randomized to NRT, bupropion or varenicline or 
placebo) showed that the risk was equal among treatments and a black box warning was removed. 
Many who take Chantix have already tried nicotine replacement products unsuccessfully. While Chantix 
is meant to be used alone, there has been some success in adding short-acting NRTs in those who 
continue to experience withdrawal symptoms. In those who have successfully quit at 12 weeks, some 
may benefit from an additional 12 weeks of therapy to prevent relapse. 2020 guidelines for tobacco 
cessation issued by the American Thoracic Society recommend Chantix as first line therapy over nicotine 
replacement products and bupropion and state that for many patients, longer duration of treatment 
(greater than 12 weeks) is necessary to ensure success with quitting. We used paid, non-reversed 
Medicaid pharmacy and medical claims date from calendar year 2019 excluding members with Part D, 
MaineRX and TPL. We looked at all members who were prescribed Chantix and evaluated the number 
of monthly prescriptions dispensed per member. Additionally, we analyzed which members were also 
simultaneously prescribed a short acting nicotine replacement product (gum, lozenges, inhaler, nasal 
spray). We also looked at members prescribed bupropion and how it was being prescribed with other 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
smoking cessation medications. There was a tremendous amount of variability in prescribing, with 
many members getting less than 12 weeks of treatment. Additionally, many members were prescribed 
12 or 24 weeks (or more) of Chantix in the year, but not in consecutive fashion. In fact, most members 
did not complete 3 or 6 consecutive 28 day prescriptions. 
Recommendation: Given the wide variation of use of Chantix, it is worth considering general education 
to providers in Maine about appropriate prescribing of Chantix, monitoring of use, and guidelines 
recommending using bupropion and short-term nicotine replacement products with Chantix may be 
warranted. With 75% of members not continuing treatment for the indicated treatment length per 
labeling, considerations should be made as to how we ensure that the product is being used 
appropriately, short of re-establishing PA requirements. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
INTRODUCE: INFLUENZA VACCINATION RATES 
Influenza vaccination rates are routinely significantly lower than recommended by the CDC. Influenza is 
responsible for many thousands of deaths annually, including among children and those with chronic 
illnesses. It is somewhat surprising that more people are not immunized, given the many avenues 
available for immunization, including pharmacies, work sites, sponsored clinics and PCP/medical 
specialty offices. While children are often the highest group affected by flu every year, immunization 
rates are dismal, at around 20% annually. This year especially will be critical given COVID -19 illness, 
which continues to rage throughout the US. Immunization guidelines are that all people above the age 
of 6 months receive influenza vaccinations yearly, unless there is a history of severe reactions to 
previous flu shots. Even those with egg allergies are eligible to get the vaccinations, contrary to popular 
belief. We will use paid, non-reversed Medicaid pharmacy and medical claims date from calendar year 
2019 excluding members with Part D, MaineRX and TPL. We will look at all members who were eligible 
for vaccination in 2019 and determine the rate of vaccination for the 2019-20 flu season. Additionally, 
we will look at those who were prescribe Tamiflu in 2018-2019 flu season, to see if previous infection 
had any effect on improving vaccination rates compared with the general public. We will also look at 
high risk group, those with COPD, to see if there was a better vaccination rate than that of the general 
public overall, given higher likelihood of severe infection and death. 
Board Decision: After board discussion it was asked to add into the results a break down by county and 
date adjustment may be made in order to have a complete flu season. No other action needed at this 
time. 
NEW DRUG REVIEW 
Airduo® Digihaler (fluticasone propionate & salmeterol); PDL category- Anti-asthmatic- Adrenergic 
Combinations 
AirDuo® Digihaler is a combination product containing fluticasone (a synthetic corticosteroid with anti-
inflammatory activity) and salmeterol (a beta2-adrenergic bronchodilator, causing relaxation of 
bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, 
especially from mast cells). It is indicated for the treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and 
older. It should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control 
medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with 
both an inhaled corticosteroid and long acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA). AirDuo® Digihaler is not 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. AirDuo® Digihaler should be used for patients not 
adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid or 
whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and long acting 
beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA). AirDuo® Digihaler is not indicated for the relief of acute 
bronchospasm. Its efficacy and safety were based on primarily on data from AirDuo® Respiclick. 
AirDuo® Digihaler includes a QR code (on the top of the inhaler) and contains a built-in electronic 
module which automatically detects, records, and stores data on inhaler events, including peak 
inspiratory flow rate (L/min). AirDuo® Digihaler may pair with and transmit data to the mobile app 
where inhaler events are categorized. There is no evidence the use of the app leads to improved clinical 
outcomes, including safety and effectiveness. Use of the app is not required for administration of 
fluticasone propionate and salmeterol to the patient. 
Recommendation: AirDuo® Digihaler to non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Alkindi® Sprinkle (hydrocortisone granule); PDL category- Glucocorticoids/Mineralocorticoids 
Hydrocortisone, the active ingredient of Alkindi® Sprinkle, is a corticosteroid, also known as cortisol. 
Hydrocortisone is a glucocorticoid, which cause varied metabolic effects. In addition, it modifies the body’s 
immune responses to diverse stimuli. Naturally occurring glucocorticoids, such as hydrocortisone and 
cortisone, which also have salt-retaining properties, are used as replacement therapy in adrenocortical 
deficiency states. It is indicated as a replacement therapy in pediatric patients with adrenocortical 
insufficiency. There are no clinical trials included in the prescribing information for this product. Following 
oral administration, a dose of four Alkindi® Sprinkle 5mg capsules was about 87% bioavailable when 
compared to IV hydrocortisone in dexamethasone-suppressed healthy adult male volunteers. In an open-
label, single-dose study in 24 pediatric patients with adrenocortical insufficiency, Alkindi® Sprinkle (1-4mg 
based on body surface area) increased cortisol levels from baseline to median cortisol level 19.4mcg/dl 
(range 12.5-52.4mcg/dL) at Cmax (60 minutes post-dose). It is the first and only FDA-approved granular 
hydrocortisone formulation intended for children for adrenocortical insufficiency. Generic oral 
hydrocortisone tablets are available. There is no evidence to suggest that Alkindi® Sprinkle is safer or more 
effective than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Alkindi® Sprinkle to non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Armonair® Digihaler (fluticasone propionate); PDL category- Anti-asthmatic- Steroid Inhalants 
Fluticasone propionate, the active ingredient of Armonair® Digihaler, is a synthetic trifluorinated 
corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity. Inflammation is an important component in the pathogenesis 
of asthma. Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of actions on multiple cell types (e.g. 
mast cells, eosinophils) and mediators (e.g. histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, and cytokines) involved in 
inflammation. It is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 
12 years of age and older. Armonair® Digihaler is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. The 
safety and efficacy of fluticasone propionate (Armonair® Respiclick) were assessed in 2130 patients with 
asthma. The development program included 2 confirmatory trials of 12 weeks in duration, a 26-week safety 
trial, and 2 dose-ranging trials of 12 weeks duration. The efficacy of Armonair® Digihaler is based primarily 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
on the dose-ranging trials and the confirmatory trials of Armonair® Respiclick. Armonair® Respiclick has 
been available for numerous years and was found to be a safe and effective product; however, it was 
withdrawn from the market by the manufacturer. Its efficacy and safety were based primarily on data from 
Armonair® Respiclick. There is no evidence to suggest that Armonair® Digihaler is safer or more effective 
than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Armonair® Digihaler to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Remove Armonair Respiclick and criteria from the PDL as it is no longer available. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Bafiertam® (monomethyl fumarate) PDL category- Multiple Sclerosis- Non Interferons 
Monomethyl fumarate (MMF), the active ingredient of Bafiertam® has been shown to activate the Nuclear 
factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) pathway in vitro and in vivo. The Nrf2 pathway is involved in the 
cellular response to oxidative stress. MMF has been identified as a nicotinic acid receptor agonist in vitro. 
However, the mechanism by which MMF exerts its therapeutic effect in multiple sclerosis is not known. It 
is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated 
syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. The efficacy 
of Bafiertam® is based upon bioavailability studies in healthy subjects comparing oral dimethyl fumarate 
delayed-release capsules to Bafiertam® delayed-release capsules. The clinical studies included in the 
prescribing information for Bafiertam® were conducted using dimethyl fumarate. The efficacy of 
Bafiertam® is based upon bioavailability studies in healthy subjects comparing oral dimethyl fumarate 
delayed-release capsules to Bafiertam® delayed-release capsules. There is no evidence at this time to 
suggest that Bafiertam® is safer or more effective than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective 
medications. 
Recommendation: Bafiertam® be non-preferred. In reviewing the category Dimethyl Fumarate will be 
added to preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Blenrep® (belantamab mafodotin-blmfl); PDL category- Cancer 
Belantamab mafodotin-blmf, the active ingredient of Blenrep®, is a B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-
directed antibody and microtubule inhibitor conjugate. The antibody is produced in a mammalian cell line 
using recombinant DNA technology. Belantamab mafodotin-blmf is an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) 
composed of 3 components, including 
1. 
an afucosylated, humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody covalently linked to 
2. 
the microtubule inhibitor MMAF via 
3. 
a protease-resistant maleimidocaproyl linker 
The antibody component is an afucosylated IgG1 directed against BCMA, a protein expressed on normal 
B lymphocytes and multiple myeloma cells. The small molecule component is MMAF, a microtubule 
inhibitor. Upon binding to BCMA, belantamab mafodotin-blmf is internalized followed by release of 
MMAF via proteolytic cleavage. The released MMAF intracellularly disrupts the microtubule network, 
leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with relapsed or 
--- Page 6 ---
6 
refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least 4 prior therapies, including an anti-CD38 
monoclonal antibody, a proteasome inhibitor, and an immunomodulatory agent. This indication is 
approved under accelerated approval based on response rate. Continued approval for this indication may 
be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). The safety and 
efficacy of Blenrep® were assessed in an open-label, multicenter study (DREAMM-2) that included 
patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, had previously received 3 or more therapies 
including an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and were refractory to an immunomodulatory agent and a 
proteasome inhibitor. Patients had measurable disease by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) 
criteria. Patients with corneal epithelial disease, except mild punctate keratopathy, at baseline were 
excluded from the study. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on response rate. 
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical 
benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). In an open-label study that included 97 patients who received Blenrep® 
at a dose of 2.5mg/kg the overall response rate was 31%. 
Recommendation: Blenrep® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Breztri® Aerosphere (budesonide, glycopyrrolate, formoterol fumarate); PDL category- Antiasthmatic 
Adrenergic Combinations 
Breztri® Aerosphere is a metered dose inhaler that delivers a combination of three active ingredients, 
including budesonide (an anti-inflammatory corticosteroid), glycopyrrolate (a long-acting antimuscarinic 
agent, or anticholinergic, that exhibits pharmacological effects through inhibition of the M3 receptor at 
the smooth muscle leading to bronchodilation), and formoterol fumarate (a long-acting selective beta2-
adrenergic agonist, or beta2-agonist, with a rapid onset and that cause relaxation of bronchial smooth 
muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from the cell, especially mast 
cells). It is indicated for the maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD). It is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma. 
The safety and efficacy of Breztri® Aerosphere were assessed in two randomized, double-blind, 
multicenter, parallel-group studies that included subjects with moderate to very severe COPD who 
remained symptomatic while receiving 2 or more inhaled maintenance treatments for COPD for at least 
6 weeks prior to screening. Breztri® Aerosphere was more effective than either of the dual active 
comparators of budesonide plus formoterol fumarate or glycopyrrolate plus formoterol fumarate for 
various endpoints in two phase 3 studies that included moderate to severe symptomatic COPD patients, 
including significantly improving the rate of on-treatment moderate or severe exacerbations over 52 
weeks (the primary endpoint in Trial 1). However, at 24 weeks, there was a non-significant improvement 
in the change from baseline in morning pre-dose trough FEV1 at week 24 as compared with glycopyrrolate 
plus formoterol fumarate (in Trial 2). There is some evidence at this time to suggest that Breztri® 
Aerosphere may be more effective than the dual ingredient comparators that were composed of its 
components (budesonide plus formoterol fumarate or glycopyrrolate plus formoterol fumarate) for 
certain endpoints assessed in two phase 3 studies, including the rate of on-treatment moderate or severe 
COPD exacerbations over 52 weeks and an increase in on-treatment FEV1 AUC0-4 at week 24 relative to 
a budesonide/formoterol fumarate MDI only (the change from baseline in morning pre-dose trough FEV1 
at week 24 with Breztri® Aerosphere as compared with glycopyrrolate plus formoterol fumarate was not 
significant.). However, there is no evidence to suggest that Breztri® Aerosphere is safer or more effective 
than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications including the three ingredients taken 
separately. 
--- Page 7 ---
7 
Recommendation: Breztri® Aerosphere be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Cystadrops® (cysteamine opthalmic); PDL category- OP- Of Interest 
Cysteamine, the active ingredient of Cystadrops®, acts as a cystine-depleting agent by converting cystine 
to cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfides and reduces corneal cystine crystal accumulation. It 
is indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal deposits in adults and children with cystinosis. The 
safety and efficacy of Cystadrops® were assessed in 2 studies, including a single-arm study conducted for 
5 years (OCT-1 study) and a randomized controlled study conducted for 90 days (CHOC study). In a small 
clinical trial, Cystadrops® was associated with a greater reduction from baseline to 90 days in the IVCM 
total score across all corneal layers compared with control. It is the only eye drop FDA approved for this 
indication for four times a day use. 
Recommendation: Cystadrops® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o PA required to confirm appropriate diagnosis and clinical parameters for use. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Cystaran® (cysteamine ophthalmic); PDL category- Op- Of Interest 
Cysteamine, the active ingredient of Cystaran®, acts as a cystine-depleting agent by converting cystine to 
cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfides and reduces corneal cystine crystal accumulation. It is 
indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal accumulation in patients with cystinosis. The safety 
and efficacy of Cystaran® were assessed in controlled trials in approximately 300 patients. The primary 
endpoint was the response rate defined as a reduction of at least 1 unit in the photo-rated Corneal Cystine 
Crystal Score (CCCS) at some time point during the study when baseline CCCS ≥1, or a lack of an increase 
of more than 1 unit in CCCS throughout the study when baseline CCCS ˂1. In 2 small trials, Cystaran® was 
associated with a response rate of 33% to 67%. Corneal crystals accumulate if Cystaran® is discontinued. 
Recommendation: Cystaran® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o PA required to confirm appropriate diagnosis and clinical parameters for use. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Dojolvi® (triheptanoin liquid); PDL category- Electrolytes/Nutritionals 
Triheptanoin, the active ingredient of Dojolvi®, is a synthetic medium odd-chain (C7) triglyceride; it is a 
medium-chain triglyceride consisting of three odd-chain 7-carbon length fatty acids (heptanoate) that 
provide a source of calories and fatty acids to bypass the long-chain fatty acid oxidation disorder enzyme 
deficiencies for energy production and replacement. Long-chain fatty acid oxidation disorders (LA-FAOD) 
are a group of rare life-threatening disorders where the body is not able to convert long-chain fatty acids 
--- Page 8 ---
8 
to energy. Dojolvi® circumvents the enzyme deficiencies that cause LC-FAOD and provide a source of 
calories and fatty acids that can be converted to energy. It is indicated as a source of calories and fatty 
acids for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with molecularly confirmed long-chain fatty acid 
oxidation disorders (LC-FAOD). The efficacy of triheptanoin as a source of calories and fatty acids was 
assessed in a one study (Study 3), which was a 4-month double-blind, randomized controlled study that 
compared triheptanoin (7-carbon chain fatty acid) with trioctanoin (8-carbon chain fatty acid) that 
included 32 adult and pediatric patients with a confirmed diagnosis of LC-FAOD and evidence of at least 
one significantly episode of rhabdomyolysis and at least 2 of the following diagnostic criteria: disease 
specific elevation of acylcarnitine on a new born blood spot or in plasma, low enzyme activity in cultured 
fibroblasts, or one or more known pathogenic mutations in CPT2, ACADVL, HADHA, or HADHB. In one 
study, 4 months of triheptanoin (Dojolvi®) resulted in similar mean changes from baseline as trioctanoin 
in left ventricular ejection fraction and wall mass on resting echocardiogram, as well as similar maximal 
heart rates on treadmill ergometry in a population with LC FAOD. 
Recommendation: Dojolvi® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Enspryng® (satralizumab); PDL category- Monoclonal Antibody 
Satralizumab-mwge, the active ingredient of Enspryng®, is a recombinant humanized anti-human 
interleukin 6 (IL-6) receptor monoclonal antibody based on a human IgG2 framework. It is produced by 
recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Its exact mechanism of action is not known 
but it is presumed to involve inhibition if IL-6 mediated signaling through binding to soluble and 
membrane-bound IL-6 receptors. It is indicated for the treatment of neuromyelitis optica spectrum 
disorder (NMOSD) in adults who are anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibody positive. The safety and efficacy 
of Enspryng® for the treatment of NMOSD were established in 2 studies. In two placebo-controlled trials, 
the time to the first Clinical Endpoint Committee (CEC)-confirmed relapse was significantly longer with 
the Enspryng® group compared to placebo. In addition, significantly more in the Enspryng® group than 
placebo group were relapse-free at 96 weeks. While there are 3 treatments available for NMOSD, 
Enspryng® is the only product that can be self-administered by the patient. 
Recommendation: Enspryng® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Evrysdi® (risdiplam) allergen powder-dnfp); PDL category- Neurologics- SMA 
Risdiplam, the active ingredient of Evrysdi®, is a survival of motor neuron 2 (SMN2) splicing modifier 
designed to treat patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) caused by mutations in chromosome 5q 
that lead to SMN protein deficiency. Risdiplam was demonstrated to increase exon 7 inclusion in SMN2 
messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) transcripts and production of full-length SMN protein in the brain. It 
is indicated for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in patients 2 months of age and older. 
The efficacy of Evrysdi® for the treatment of patients with infantile-onset and later-onset spinal muscular 
atrophy (SMA) was assessed in 2 clinical studies. The overall findings of these studies support the 
effectiveness of Evrysdi® in SMA patients 2 months of age and older and appear to support the early 
initiation of treatment with Evrysdi®. In addition, 41% treated with Evrysdi® were able to sit independently 
for ≥5 seconds after 12 months of treatment. These results are superior to the natural history of the 
--- Page 9 ---
9 
disease. In the later-onset SMA study, the change from baseline in MFM32 total score at month 12 
demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant difference between patients treated with 
Evrysdi® and placebo, favoring Evrysdi®. 
Recommendation: Evrysdi® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Clinical PA is required to establish diagnosis and medical necessity. 
o For patients 2 months of age and older. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Gavreto® (pralsetinib); PDL category- Cancer 
Pralsetinib, the active ingredient of Gavreto®, is an oral receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It is a kinase 
inhibitor of wild-type RET and oncogenic RET fusions. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with 
metastatic RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as detected by an FDA approved test. 
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of 
response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of 
clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s). The efficacy of Gavreto® was assessed in patients with RET fusion-
positive NSCLC in a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, multi-cohort study. This indication is 
approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response. Continued 
approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in 
confirmatory trial(s). In a single-arm, open-label study of patients taking Gavreto®, the overall response 
rate for RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients who received prior platinum-based chemotherapy was 57%, 
while for treatment-naïve RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients the overall response rate was 70%. 
Recommendation: Gavreto® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Hemady® (dexamethasone); PDL category- Glucocorticoids/Mineralocorticoids 
Dexamethasone, the active ingredient of Hemady®, is a corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory effects and 
low mineralocorticoid activity. The exact mechanism of action for its approved indication is not known. 
Dexamethasone induces apoptosis of multiple myeloma cells. It is indicated in combination with other 
anti-myeloma products for the treatment of adults with multiple myeloma (MM). There were no clinical 
trials listed in the Hemady® prescribing information. Following oral administration of a single dose of 
dexamethasone tablet to healthy subjects, the decrease in mean baseline cortisol concentration was 
maximal by 12 hours post-dose, with mean cortisol concentrations returning to near baseline about 3 
days after drug administration. There is no evidence to suggest that Hemady® is safer or more effective 
than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Hemady® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Inqovi® (cedazuridine and decitabine); PDL category- Cancer 
--- Page 10 ---
10 
Inqovi® is a combination tablet containing both decitabine (a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor) and 
cedazuridine (a cytidine deaminase inhibitor). It is believed that decitabine exerts its effects after 
phosphorylation and direct incorporation into DNA and inhibition of DNA methyltransferase, causing 
hypomethylation of DNA and cellular differentiation and/or apoptosis. Decitabine inhibits DNA 
methylation in vitro, which is achieved at concentrations that do not cause major suppression of DNA 
synthesis. Decitabine-induced hypomethylation in cancer cells may restore normal function to genes that 
are critical for the control of cellular differentiation and proliferation. It is indicated for the treatment of 
adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), including previously treated and untreated, de novo and 
secondary MDS with the following French-American-British subtypes (refractory anemia, refractory 
anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts, and chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia [CMML]) and intermediate-1, intermediate-2, and high-risk International Prognostic Scoring 
System groups. Inqovi® was assessed in an open-label, randomized, 2-cycle, 2-sequence crossover study 
that included adults with MDS (International Prognostic Scoring System [IPSS] Intermediate-1, 
Intermediate-2, or high-risk) or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). 
Recommendation: Inqovi® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Kesimpta® (ofatumumab); PDL category- Multiple Sclerosis- Non Interferons 
Ofatumumab, the active ingredient of Kesimpta®, is a recombinant human monoclonal immunoglobulin 
G1 (IgG1) antibody that binds to human CD20 expressed on B-cells. The exact mechanism of action by 
which ofatumumab exerts its therapeutic effects for its approved indication is not known, but is presumed 
to involve binding to CD20, a cell surface antigen present on pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. Following 
cell surface binding to B lymphocytes, ofatumumab results in antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and 
complement-mediated lysis. It is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), 
to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive 
disease, in adults. The safety and efficacy of Kesimpta® were assessed in 2 randomized, double-blind, 
double-dummy, active comparator-controlled trials of identical design that included patients with 
relapsing forms of MS. In two phase 3 clinical trials, Kesimpta® was found to be significantly more effective 
than teriflunomide for the primary endpoint of ARR, with Kesimpta® being associated with lower 
annualized relapse rates than teriflunomide. Kesimpta® was significantly more effective than 
teriflunomide for other secondary endpoints assessed. There is some evidence to suggest that Kesimpta® 
is more effective than oral teriflunomide in two phase 3 studies for the primary endpoint of annualized 
relapse rate, as well as some secondary endpoints assessed. However, there is no evidence to suggest 
that Kesimpta® is safer or more effective than other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Kesimpta® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Lampit® (nifurtimox); PDL category- Antiprotozoals 
Nifurtimox, the active ingredient of Lampit®, is an antiprotozoal. While the mechanism of action is not 
fully understood, studies suggest that nifurtimox is metabolized/activated by Type I (oxygen insensitive) 
and Type II (oxygen sensitive) nitro reductases (NTR) leading to production of toxic intermediate 
--- Page 11 ---
11 
metabolites and/or reactive oxygen species that induce DNA damage and cell death of both intracellular 
and extracellular forms of T. cruzi. It is indicated in pediatric patients (birth to less than 18 years of age 
and weighing at least 2.5kg) for the treatment of Chagas disease (American Trypanosomiasis) caused by 
Trypanosoma cruzi. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on the number of 
treated patients who became immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody negative or who showed an at least 20% 
decrease in optical density on two different IgG antibody tests against antigens of T. cruzi. Continued 
approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a 
confirmatory trial(s). The safety and efficacy of Lampit® for the treatment of Chagas disease in pediatric 
patients’ birth to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 2.5kg were demonstrated in one 
prospective, randomized, double-blind study conducted in Argentina, Bolivia, and Columbia. Pediatric 
patients (N=330) with serologic evidence of T. cruzi infection and without Chagas disease-related cardiac 
or gastrointestinal symptoms were randomly assigned to a 60-day or 30-day treatment regimen with 
nifurtimox. Patients were followed up for one year. Continued approval for this indication may be 
contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefits in a confirmatory trial. Lampit® tablets 
should not be split mechanically with a table splitting device, but rather should be broken by hand. In a 
randomized, double-blind trial, serologic response was superior in the 60-day arm compared with the 30-
day arm treatment groups. Note that the 30-day regimen is not an approved dosing regimen. 
Recommendation: Lampit® to be preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Clinical PA required for appropriate diagnosis. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Licart® (diclofenac epolamine); PDL category- NSAIDs 
Diclofenac epolamine, the active ingredient of Licart®, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug with 
analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. The exact mechanism is not completely 
understood but involves inhibition of cyclooxygenase. Diclofenac is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin 
synthesis. It is indicated for the topical treatment of acute pain due to minor strains, sprains, and 
contusions. f Licart® begins to peel-off, the edges of the topical system may be taped down. If problems 
with adhesion persist, patients may overlap the topical system with a mesh netting sleeve, where 
appropriate. The mesh netting sleeve must allow air to pass through and not be occlusive (i.e. non-
breathable). Do not apply Licart® to non-intact or damaged skin resulting from any etiology. In addition, 
do not wear Licart® when bathing or showering. The safety and efficacy of Licart® for the treatment of 
patients with minor sprains, strains, and/or contusions were assessed in two randomized, double-blind, 
parallel-arm, placebo- and active-controlled studies. In a study with healthy human volunteers, activated 
partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), a measure of coagulation, was unchanged following multiple Licart® 
applications. Flector® has the same active ingredient and indication as Licart® but Flector® is indicated to 
be used twice daily; it does not contain heparin as an inactive ingredient. In addition, Flector® is available 
generically. 
Recommendation: Licart® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Mycapssa® (octreotide); PDL category- Somatostatic Agents 
--- Page 12 ---
12 
Octreotide, the active ingredient of Mycapssa®, is a somatostatin analog. Octreotide exerts pharmacologic 
actions similar to the natural hormone somatostatin, but is a more potent inhibitor of growth hormone, 
glucagon, and insulin than somatostatin. Like somatostatin, it also suppresses luteinizing hormone (LH) 
response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), decreases splanchnic blood flow, and inhibits 
release of serotonin, gastrin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, secretin, motilin, and pancreatic polypeptide. 
It is indicated for the long-term maintenance treatment in acromegaly patients who have responded to 
and tolerated treatment with octreotide or lanreotide. The efficacy of Mycapssa® was established in a 9-
month, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study that included patients with acromegaly. The 
primary endpoint was somatostatin dose-adjusted proportion of patients who maintain their biochemical 
response, defined as an IGF-1 level ≤ ULN at the end of 9 months of treatment. Results suggested that 
58% in the Mycapssa® group vs 19% treated with placebo maintained their biochemical response. There 
is no evidence to suggest that Mycapssa® is safer or more effective than the other currently preferred, 
more cost-effective medications. Furthermore, the indication does specifically state use is for patients 
who have responded to and tolerated treatment with octreotide or lanreotide. 
Recommendation: Mycapssa® to be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Non-preferred products must be used in specified step order. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Ongentys® (opicapone); PDL category- Parkinson’s- COMT Inhibitors 
Opicapone, the active ingredient of Ongentys®, is a peripheral, selective, and reversible catechol-O-
methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor. COMT catalyzes the transfer of the methyl group of S-adenosyl-L-
methionine to the phenolic group of substrates that contain a catechol structure. Physiological substrates 
of COMT include catecholamines (dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine) and their hydroxylated 
metabolites. When decarboxylation of levodopa is prevented by carbidopa, COMT becomes the major 
metabolizing enzyme for levodopa, catalyzing its metabolism to 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-L-phenylalanine (3-
OMD). It is indicated as an adjunctive treatment to levodopa/carbidopa in patients with Parkinson’s 
disease (PD) experiencing ‘off’ episodes. The efficacy of Ongentys® for the adjunctive treatment to 
levodopa/carbidopa in patients with PD experiencing ‘off’ episodes was assessed in two double-blind, 
randomized, parallel-group studies of 14 to 15 weeks in duration, with study 1 being placebo- and active-
controlled and study 2 being placebo-controlled. The primary endpoint of the least-squares mean change 
from baseline in absolute time in the off state was -1.605 in the entacapone group. Opicapone 50mg was 
superior to placebo and non-inferior to entacapone. Entacapone was also superior to placebo. In addition, 
the % of patients with a reduction of ≥1 hour in time in the off state was 70% with Ongentys® 50mg and 
58% with entacapone 200mg, which was not significantly different (p=0.063). For the placebo group, the 
% of patients was 48%. Opicapone was significantly different from placebo (p=0.001) but entacapone was 
not significantly different from placebo (p=0.094). There is no evidence to suggest that Ongentys® is safer 
or more effective than the other currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Ongentys® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Onureg® (azacitidine); PDL category- Cancer 
--- Page 13 ---
13 
Azacitidine, the active ingredient of Onureg®, is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor; it is a pyrimidine 
nucleoside analog of cytidine that inhibits DNA/RNA methyltransferases. Azacitidine is incorporated into 
DNA and RNA after cellular uptake and enzymatic biotransformation to nucleotide triphosphates. 
Incorporation of azacitidine into the DNA of cancer cells in vitro, including acute myeloid leukemia cells, 
inhibited DNA methyltransferases, reduced DNA methylation and altered gene expression, including re-
expression of genes regulating tumor suppression and cell differentiation. Incorporation of azacitidine 
into the RNA of cancer cells, including leukemic cells, inhibited RNA methyltransferases, reduced RNA 
methylation, decreased RNA stability and decreased protein synthesis. It is indicated for continued 
treatment of adults with acute myeloid leukemia who achieved first complete remission (CR) or complete 
remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) following intensive induction chemotherapy and 
are not able to complete intensive curative therapy. The safety and efficacy of Onureg® were assessed in 
a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (QUAZAR) that included adults 55 
years of age or older who had AML and were within 4 months of achieving first complete remission (CR) 
or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) with intensive induction 
chemotherapy. Due to substantial differences in pharmacokinetic parameters, the recommended dose 
and schedule for Onureg® are different from those for the IV or SC azacitidine products. Treatment of 
patients using IV or SC azacitidine at the recommended dosage of Onureg® may result in a fatal adverse 
reaction. Do not substitute Onureg® for IV or SC azacitidine as the indications and dosage regimen for 
Onureg® differ from that of IV or SC azacitidine. In a phase 3, placebo-controlled trial, a statistically 
significant improvement in overall survival was established for patients randomized to Onureg® as 
compared with placebo. 
Recommendation: Onureg® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Polivy® (polatuzumab); PDL category- Cancer 
Polatuzumab vedotin-piiq, the active ingredient of Polivy®, is a CD79b-directed antibody-drug conjugate 
(ADC) consisting of 3 components, including the humanized immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal 
antibody specific for human CD79b; the small molecule anti-mitotic agent MMAE; and a protease-
cleavable linker (maleimidocaproyl-valine-citrulline-p-aminobenzyloxycarbonyl or mc-vc-PAB) that 
covalently attaches MMAE to the polatuzumab antibody. Polatuzumab vedotin-piiq is a CD79b-directed 
ADC with activity against dividing B cells. The small molecule, MMAE, is an anti-mitotic agent covalently 
attached to the antibody via a cleavable linker. The monoclonal antibody binds to CD79b, a B-cell specific 
surface protein, which is a component of the B-cell receptor. Upon binding CD79b, polatuzumab vedotin-
piiq is internalized, and the linker is cleaved by lysosomal proteases to enable intracellular delivery of 
MMAE. MMAE binds to microtubules and kills dividing cells by inhibiting cell division and inducing 
apoptosis. It is indicated in combination with bendamustine and a rituximab product for the treatment of 
adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), not otherwise specified, 
after at least 2 prior therapies. Accelerated approval was granted for this indication based on complete 
response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description 
of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. The efficacy of Polivy® was assessed in an open-label, multicenter 
study that included a cohort of 80 patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL after at least one prior 
regimen. Patients were randomized to receive either Polivy® in combination with bendamustine and a 
rituximab product (BR) or BR alone for six 21-day cycles. Eligible patients were not candidates for 
autologous HSCT at study entry. Premedication with an antihistamine and antipyretic was given. 
--- Page 14 ---
14 
Accelerated approval was granted for this indication based on complete response rate. Continued 
approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a 
confirmatory trial. In a clinical trial, the objective response rate at the end of treatment in patients with 
relapsed or refractory DLBCL was 45% for patients treated with the Polivy® combination as compared with 
18% with patients treated with only bendamustine and a rituximab product. 
Recommendation: Polivy® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Tecartus® (brexucabtagene autoleucel suspen); PDL category- Cancer 
Tecartus® is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous T cell immunotherapy. To prepare 
Tecartus®, a patient’s own T cells are harvested and genetically modified ex vivo by retroviral transduction 
to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising a murine anti-CD19 single-chain variable 
fragment (scFv) linked to CD28 and CD3-zeta co-stimulatory domains. The anti-CD19 CAR T cells are 
expanded and infused back into the patient, where they can recognize and eliminate CD19-expressing 
target cells. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma 
(MCL). This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and 
durability of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and 
description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. A single-arm, open-label, multicenter study (ZUMA-
2) assessed the safety and efficacy of a single infusion of Tecartus® in adults with relapsed or refractory 
mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who had previously received anthracycline- or bendamustine-containing 
chemotherapy, an anti-CD20 antibody, and a Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTKi; ibrutinib or 
acalabrutinib). Eligible patients also had disease progression after their last regimen or refractory disease 
to their most recent therapy. 
Recommendation: Tecartus® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Uplizna® (inebilizumab-cdon); PDL category- Monoclonal Antibody 
Inebilizumab-cdon, the active ingredient of Uplizna®, is a CD19-directed humanized afucosylated IgG1 
monoclonal antibody produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell 
suspension culture. Its exact mechanism of action is not known but is presumed to involve binding to 
CD19, a cell surface antigen present on pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. After cell surface binding to B 
lymphocytes, inebilizumab-cdon results in antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis. It is indicated for the 
treatment of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in adult patients who are anti-aquaporin-
4 (AQP4) antibody positive. The safety and efficacy of Uplizna® for the treatment of NMOSD were assessed 
in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that included adults with NMOSD where 213 
adults were anti-AQP4 antibody positive and 17 were anti-AQP4 antibody negative. In clinical trials 
compared to placebo, the time to the first adjudicated relapse was significantly longer in patients treated 
with Uplizna® as compared with placebo. Uplizna® use is contraindicated in patients with active hepatitis 
B infection and with active or untreated latent tuberculosis. 
Recommendation: Uplizna® to be non-preferred. 
--- Page 15 ---
15 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Viltepso® (viltolarsen); PDL category- Muscular Dystrophy Agents 
Viltolarsen, the active ingredient of Viltepso®, is an antisense oligonucleotide of the phosphorodiamidate 
morpholino oligomer (PMO) subclass. It is designed to bind to exon 53 of dystrophin pre-mRNA resulting 
in exclusion of this exon during mRNA processing in patients with genetic mutations that are amenable to 
exon 53 skipping. Exon 53 skipping is intended to allow for production of an internally truncated 
dystrophin protein in patients with genetic mutations that are amenable to exon 53 skipping. It is 
indicated for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) in patients who have a confirmed 
mutation of the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 53 skipping. This indication is approved under 
accelerated approval based on an increase in dystrophin production in skeletal muscle observed in 
patients treated with Viltepso®. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon 
verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. The effect of Viltepso® on dystrophin 
production was assessed in one study that included DMD patients with a confirmed mutation of the DMD 
gene that is amenable to exon 53 skipping. atients treated with Viltepso® 80mg/kg once weekly in a clinical 
trial (N=8) had mean dystrophin levels increase from 0.6% of normal at baseline to 5.9% of normal by 
week 25, with a mean change in dystrophin of 5.3% of normal levels (p=0.01). The clinical significance of 
the increase in dystrophin level – a proxy marker - is unknown at present. 
Recommendation: Viltepso® to be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Clinical prior authorization to verify diagnosis and use of stable dose of corticosteroid for 
at least 3 months 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Xywav® (calcium, magnesium, potassium, & sodium oxybates solution); PDL category- Stimulant- 
Stimulants Like 
Xywav® is a CNS depressant that contains a mixture of calcium oxybate, magnesium oxybate, potassium 
oxybate, and sodium oxybate. The chemical name of oxybate is gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), which is 
an endogenous compound and metabolite of the neurotransmitter GABA. The exact mechanism of action 
for its approved indication is not known, but it is hypothesized that the therapeutic effects of Xywav® are 
mediated through GABAB actions during sleep on noradrenergic and dopaminergic neurons, as well as at 
thalamocortical neurons. It is indicated for the treatment of cataplexy or excessive daytime sleepiness 
(EDS) in patients 7 years of age and older with narcolepsy. It is a Schedule III controlled substance. The 
efficacy of Xywav® for the treatment of cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness in adults with 
narcolepsy was established in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized-withdrawal study. Results 
of a clinical trial in adults indicated that patients taking stable doses of Xywav® who discontinued Xywav® 
treatment and were randomized to placebo during the double-blind, randomized-withdrawal period 
experienced a significant worsening in the average weekly number of cataplexy attacks and in ESS score 
as compared with patients randomized to continue treatment with Xywav®. The efficacy of Xywav® in 
pediatric patients is based upon a clinical study in patients treated with Xyrem®. 
Recommendation: Xywav® to be non-preferred. In reviewing the category Xyrem Sol will be moved to 
the STIMULANT - STIMULANT LIKE category as non-preferred. 
--- Page 16 ---
16 
Clinical Criteria: 
o For patients 7 years of age and older with narcolepsy. 
o Xywav: Diagnosis of cataplexy associated with narcolepsy OR excessive daytime 
sleepiness associated with narcolepsy. Diagnosis must be confirmed by submission of 
supporting documentation to include the specialist’s interpretation of the 
Polysomnography (PSG) and Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) results 
o FDA reminded healthcare professionals and patients that the combined use of Xyrem 
(sodium oxybate) with alcohol or central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs can 
markedly impair consciousness and may lead to severe breathing problems (respiratory 
depression 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
FDA SAFETY ALERTS 
CDER proposes withdrawal of approval for Makena 
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/cder-proposes-withdrawal-approval-
makena?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery 
FDA advises health care professionals and patients about insulin pen packaging and 
dispensing 
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-advises-health-care-professionals-and-
patients-about-insulin-pen-packaging-and-
dispensing?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery 
FDA Warns that Using a Type of Pain and Fever Medication in Second Half of Pregnancy 
Could Lead to Complications 
https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-warns-using-type-pain-and-fever-
medication-second-half-pregnancy-could-lead-
complications?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery 
Board Decision: No formal action required 
ADJOURNMENT: 8:30PM 
The next meeting will be held on March 9, 2021 5:30pm –8:30pm at the Augusta Armory.