STATE: Maine
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/dam/ffs-medicare/me/dur/mainedur06162020meetingminutes.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/mainecarepdl/en/drug-utilization-review
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: June 16, 2020
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Maine Department of Health and Human Services 
Office of MaineCare Services - Pharmacy Unit 
11 State House Station 
Augusta, Maine 04333-0011 
Toll Free: (866) 796-2463; TTY: Dial 711 (Maine Relay) 
Fax: (207) 287-8601 
Janet T. Mills 
Governor 
Jeanne M. Lambrew, Ph.D. 
Commissioner 
TO: 
Maine Drug Utilization Review Board 
DATE: 6/29/20 
RE: Maine DUR Board Meeting minutes from June 16, 2020 
ATTENDANCE 
PRESENT 
ABSENT 
EXCUSED 
Linda Glass, MD 
X 
Lisa Wendler, Pharm. D., Clinical Pharmacy Specialist, 
Maine Medical CTR 
X 
Mike Antoniello, MD 
X 
Kathleen Polonchek, MD 
X 
Kenneth McCall, PharmD 
X 
Erin Ackley, PharmD. 
X 
Corinn Martineau, PharmD. 
X 
Non –Voting 
Mike Ouellette, R.Ph., Change Healthcare 
X 
Jacquelyn Hedlund, MD, Change Healthcare 
X 
Jill Kingsbury, MaineCare Pharmacy Director 
X 
Guests of the Board: Ed Bosshart, PharmD 
CALL TO ORDER: 5:30PM 
Jill Kingsbury called the meeting to order at 5:30 PM. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Tobie Escher from Intra Cellular: Highlighted the attributes of Capyta. 
Jessica Grussing from Neurelis: Highlighted the attributes of Valtoco. 
Chelsea Leroue from Biohaven Pharmaceuticals: Highlighted the attributes of Nurtec ODT. 
Gary Parenteau from Afaxys: Highlighted the attributes of Annovera. 
Kristin Kollecas from Sanofi Genzyme: Highlighted the attributes of Sarclisa. 
Dr. Ryan Smith, Chief of Psychiatry at UNE: Highlighted the attributes of Spravato. 
OLD BUSINESS 
DUR MINUTES 
The March DUR meeting minutes were accepted. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
MAINECARE UPDATE 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
No update at this time. 
REVISED CLINICAL CRITERIA/PREFERRED REVIEW 
Biosimilars: 
Trazimera® PDL category- Antineoplastic- Monoclonal Antibodies 
Ontruzant® PDL category- Antineoplastic- Monoclonal Antibodies 
Recommendation: Add Trazimera, Ontruzant and Herzuma to non-preferred. Move Kanjinti to 
preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
NEW BUSINESS 
DATA PRESENTATION: PDL COMPLIANCE (PICK 6 CATEGORIES) 
Pharmacy formularies are constructed to guide providers in the commercial insurer world to use 
efficacious and cost-effective therapies in accordance with covered products. For Medicaid, the 
Preferred Drug List (PDL) is constructed with all out-patient drugs being available in accordance with 
Social Security Act 1927 and is posted publicly. While not mandated by Social Security Act 1927, states 
are allowed to maintain a Preferred Drug List and to enter rebate agreements with manufacturers to 
maximize savings while guaranteeing access and quality. The criteria used to determine authorization 
for non-preferred drugs is transparent and vetted through the state Pharmacy and Therapeutics 
Committee. These criteria for prescribing non-preferred medications are posted on the PDL. While not 
meant to be burdensome for providers, a well- constructed PDL should allow for prescribing of 
appropriate medications in most circumstances without requiring prior authorization of non-preferred 
medications. Evaluating the compliance with prescribing of preferred medications is a way to evaluate 
the rigor and adherence to criteria of the PA process. Additionally, if the PA process is sound, and many 
members are getting non-preferred medications appropriately, it may indicate a need to reevaluate the 
medication class and possible reorganization of preferred and non-preferred drug categorizations. 
States strive to stay current with new drugs and new indications for established medications, making 
PDLs fluid documents that change regularly. Auditing compliance of major drug classes is a way to 
monitor performance of pharmacy benefit management. 
We will use paid, non-reversed Medicaid pharmacy and medical claims date from calendar year 2019 
excluding members with Part D, MaineRX and TPL. We will evaluate these following categories to see 
how often the dispensed medication was preferred for the following categories: 
• 
Multiple sclerosis: interferon and non-interferon medications 
• 
Diabetes mellitus: incretin mimetics (GLP1 agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors) 
• 
Hypercholesterolemia: statins and more potent drugs and combinations (ezetimibe, Repatha, 
Praluent) 
• 
Seizure disorders: anticonvulsants 
• 
Asthma: inhaled corticosteroids, beta adrenergic agonists and combination inhalers 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
We will audit a sampling of charts in each category to evaluate the adherence to criteria for approval of 
non-preferred medications. 
Recommendation: PDL compliance for the drugs we investigated was quite good and supports the 
continued use of a preferred drug list to provide high value to members and the state Medicaid 
program. In the MS category, which has the lowest rate, a 73% compliance rate is actually impressive, 
given the heterogeneity of disease behavior, lack of clinical data that supports use of one drug over 
others, broad FDA labeling of most drugs and number of drugs in the class that are given by injection, 
rather than orally. Tecfidera, an oral drug, accounts for a significant amount of non-preferred 
prescribing and authorization. Regular PDL compliance investigations, looking at other classes of 
medications, is worthwhile to identify areas where provider education, pharmacy examination of 
changing guidelines and practice patterns and/or renegotiation with manufacturers for certain drugs 
might be worthwhile. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
INTRODUCE: PREP THERAPY TO PREVENT HIV IN AT RISK POPULATION 
Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) with antiretroviral drugs has become standard of care for those at high 
risk of contracting HIV. People considered at high risk include those who have sex with HIV-infected 
partners, those who have recent histories of STDs and/or high numbers of sex partners, those who are 
commercial sex workers and IV drug users, especially those who injecting partners are HIV positive. 
Eligible patients should have documented negative HIV test prior to starting PrEP and have no symptoms 
of acute HIV infection. Additionally, they should be tested for hepatitis B and appropriately vaccinated, 
as PrEP treatment can worsen hepatitis B infections. Renal function should be tested and be normal and 
there should be documentation of other drugs taken, as there are significant drug/drug interactions 
with antiretroviral medications. 
Once the decision is made to start PrEP therapy, it is necessary to education the patient about the 
monitoring that will need to be adhered to in order to continue therapy. This includes an HIV test every 
3 months, medication adherence counseling, side effect assessment and STD symptom assessment. 
Renal function should be assessed at 3 months, and if stable, every 6 months thereafter. Women should 
have a pregnancy test every 3 months. 
The recommended treatment for PrEP therapy is Truvada, a combination of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate (an NSTI) and emtracibine (an integrase inhibitor), or Descovy (tenofovir alafenamide and 
emtricitabine), if the patient has renal insufficiency. We will use paid, non-reversed Medicaid pharmacy 
and medical claims date from October 2018 through calendar year 2019 excluding members with Part D, 
MaineRX and TPL. 
We will identify members getting either Truvada or descovy alone and examine medical claims to see if 
the guidelines for monitoring have been followed, including pre-prescribing HIV and Hep B testing, 
documentation of recent creatinine or BMP, as well as pregnancy test in women. Additionally, will see if 
HIV testing, Creatinine and pregnancy testing was done at 3 months intervals, as recommended in 
guidelines. Will also monitor prescribing adherence rates, with over 80% days covered considered 
adequate adherence. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Board Decision: No action needed at this time. 
NEW DRUG REVIEW 
Annovera® (segesterone acetate & ethinyl estradiol vaginal system); PDL category- 
Annovera® is a vaginal system that contains a progestin (segesterone acetate) and an estrogen (ethinyl 
estradiol). Combination hormonal contraceptives (CHCs) lower the risk of becoming pregnant mainly by 
suppressing ovulation. It is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. 
Annovera® has not been adequately studied in females with a BMI >29kg/m2. (The study that supported 
approval removed women with BMI >29 kg/m2 after 2 women experienced VTEs.) The efficacy of 
Annovera® was assessed in two 1-year multicenter studies (N=2265) that included females aged 18-40 
years, who were healthy and sexually active with regular menstrual cycles. Most females were Caucasian 
(71.2%), while the mean age was 26.7 years and the mean BMI was 24.1kg/m2. At about 50% enrollment, 
women with BMI >29kg/m2 were no longer enrolled and all women with a BMI >29kg/m2 were 
discontinued from the trials. It is the first vaginal ring contraceptive that will provide contraception for 13 
cycles. Two multicenter studies found Annovera® to be effective, with a pregnancy rate assessed by the 
Pearl Index of 2.98 per 100 woman-years of Annovera® use. There is no evidence at this time to support 
that Annovera® is safer or more effective than other currently preferred medications. 
Recommendation: Annovera® to non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Arazlo® lotion (tazarotene); PDL category- Topical- Acne Preparations 
Tazarotene, the active ingredient of Arazlo®, is a member of the acetylenic class of retinoids. It is a retinoid 
prodrug that is converted to its active form, tazarotenic acid, the carboxylic acid of tazarotene, by de-
esterification. Tazarotenic acid binds to all 3 of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) family, including RARα, RAR¥ 
and RARγ, but shows relative selectivity for RARβ and RARγ and may modify gene expression. However, the 
clinical significance of these findings for the treatment of acne vulgaris is not known. It is indicated for the 
topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. The safety and efficacy of once daily 
use of Arazlo for the treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in 2 multicenter, randomized, double-blind 
studies that included subjects 9 years of age with facial acne vulgaris. There are currently other tazarotene 
dosage forms available, including a cream and a gel, with a generic available for the cream under the brand 
name Tazorac®. Tazorac® has been available for numerous years and has been found to be effective 
treatment for acne vulgaris3; however, this is the first tazarotene lotion FDA approved. Arazlo® Lotion was 
found to be more effective than placebo in 2 clinical trials assessing success on the EGSS and absolute 
changes in non-inflammatory and inflammatory lesion counts. Per the full text by Tanghetti et al2, 
differences between tazarotene lotion and placebo were statistically significant for reducing inflammatory 
and non-inflammatory lesion counts at week 12 in favor of tazarotene (p˂0.001 for both studies), as well as 
for treatment success (p˂0.001 for both studies). There is no evidence at this time that Arazlo® Lotion is 
safer or more effective than the currently preferred medications 
Recommendation: Arazlo® lotion to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
o For the treatment of patients ≥ 9 years of age. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Caplyta® (lumateperone); PDL category- Antipsychotics- Atypicals 
Lumateperone, the active ingredient of Caplyta®, is an atypical antipsychotic. While the exact mechanism of 
action is not known, the efficacy of lumateperone could be mediated through a combination of antagonist 
activity at central serotonin 5-HT2A receptors and postsynaptic antagonist activity at central dopamine D2 
receptors. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with schizophrenia. The efficacy of Caplyta® was assessed 
in two placebo-controlled trials. Study 1 was a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial 
that included adult patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia per DSM-IV-TR criteria of 4 weeks in duration. 
. In clinical trials compared with placebo, Caplyta® had statistically significantly greater reductions from 
baseline in PANSS total score. In safety studies, the frequency of EPS was similar to placebo (6.7% Caplyta® vs 
6.3% for placebo). In addition, the mean change in body weight after 175 days of treatment with Caplyta® 
was -2kg. Studies with active comparators were not found. 
Recommendation: Caplyta® to non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Dayvigo® (lemborexant); PDL category- Sedative Hypnotics 
Lemborexant, the active ingredient of Dayvigo®, is an orexin receptor antagonist. Its mechanism of action 
is presumed to be through antagonism of orexin receptors. The orexin neuropeptide signaling system 
plays a role in wakefulness. Blocking the binding of wake-promoting neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B 
to receptors OX1R and OX2R is thought to suppress wake drive. Dayvigo® is a Schedule IV controlled 
substance. As individuals with a history of abuse or addiction to alcohol or other drugs may be at increased 
risk for abuse and addiction to Dayvigo®, follow such patients carefully. It is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. 
The efficacy of Dayvigo® was assessed in 2 clinical trials that included patients with insomnia characterized 
by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Study 1 was a 6-month, multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that included adults (≥18 years of age) who met DSM-
5 criteria for insomnia disorder (N=971). The included patients had a median age of 55 years, while 68% 
were female and 72% were white. It also demonstrated statistically significant improvement in secondary 
outcomes as compared with placebo. There is some evidence from a phase 3 study to suggest that 
Dayvigo® may be more effective than zolpidem extended release 6.25mg, though this is a relatively low 
dose for this comparator drug; however, there is no evidence at this time that Dayvigo® is safer or more 
effective than the other currently preferred medications. 
Recommendation: Dayvigo® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Quantity Limit of 12 per 34 days. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
--- Page 6 ---
6 
Fetroja® (cefidereocol); PDL category- Cephalosporins 
Cefidereocol, the active ingredient of Fetroja®, is a cephalosporin antibacterial agent with activity against 
Gram negative-aerobic bacteria. Cefiderocol functions as a siderophore and binds to extracellular free 
ferric iron. It exerts bactericidal action by inhibiting cell wall biosynthesis through binding to penicillin-
binding proteins. It is indicated in patients 18 years of age or older who have limited or no alternative 
treatment options for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs), including 
pyelonephritis caused by the following susceptible Gram-negative microorganisms: Escherichia coli, 
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter cloacae complex. 
Approval of this indication is based on limited clinical safety and efficacy data for Fetroja®. The efficacy of 
Fetroja® was assessed in a multinational, double-blind randomized study that included adults hospitalized 
with cUTI, including pyelonephritis, and was compared with imipenem/cilastatin. The median duration of 
therapy in both treatment groups was 9 days. Approval of this indication is based in limited clinical safety 
and efficacy data of Fetroja®. In a clinical study assessing the composite clinical and microbiological 
response rates, Fetroja® was non-inferior to imipenem/cilastatin at the test of cure visit. However, there 
was an increase in all-cause mortality in patients treated with Fetroja® as compared to best available 
therapy in critically ill patients with carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacterial infections. There is no 
evidence at this time that Fetroja® is safer or more effective than the currently preferred medications. 
Recommendation: Fetroja® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Approvals will only be considered for patients 18 years of age or older who have limited or no 
alternative treatment options for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs) 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Isturisa® (osilodrostat); PDL category- Cushing’s Disease Agents 
Osilodrostat, the active ingredient of Isturisa®, is a cortisol synthesis inhibitor. It inhibits 11beta-
hydroxylase (CYP11B1), the enzyme responsible for the final step of cortisol biosynthesis in the adrenal 
gland. It is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Cushing’s disease for whom pituitary surgery 
is not an option or has not been curative. The safety and efficacy of Isturisa® were assessed in a 48-week 
multicenter study that consisted of 4 study periods, including: Period 1: 12-week, open-label, dose 
titration period, Period 2: 12-week, open-label, maintenance treatment period, Period 
3: 
8-week, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized withdrawal treatment period which provided the data for 
the primary efficacy endpoint, Period 4: open-label treatment period of 14 to 24 weeks duration. In a 
clinical trial, the percentage of complete responders for the primary endpoint was significantly higher with 
Isturisa® as compared with placebo. There is no evidence at this time that Isturisa® is safer or more 
effective than the currently preferred medications. 
Recommendation: Isturisa® be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Approvals will only be considered for patients 18 years of age or older who have limited or no 
alternative treatment options for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs) 
--- Page 7 ---
7 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Jatenzo® (testosterone indecanoate); PDL category- Androgens/Anabolics 
Testosterone, the active ingredient of Jatenzo®, is a fatty-acid ester of the androgen testosterone. 
Endogenous androgens, including testosterone, are responsible for the normal growth and development 
of the male sex organs and for maintenance of secondary sex characteristics. It is indicated for 
testosterone replacement therapy in adult males for conditions associated with a deficiency or absence 
of endogenous testosterone. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): testicular failure due to 
cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome, orchiectomy, Klinefelter’s syndrome, 
chemotherapy, or toxic damage from alcohol or heavy metals. These men usually have low serum 
testosterone concentrations and gonadotropins (follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH], luteinizing hormone 
[LH]) above the normal range. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): gonadotropin 
or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) deficiency or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from 
tumors, trauma, or radiation. These men have low testosterone serum concentrations but have 
gonadotropins in the normal or low range. The safety and efficacy of Jatenzo® in males less than 18 years 
of age have not been established. The safety and efficacy of Jatenzo® were assessed in a 4-month open-
label study that included adult hypogonadal males. Use is contraindicated in men with hypogonadal 
conditions, such as ‘age-related hypogonadism’, that are not associated with structural or genetic 
etiologies. In clinical studies, Jatenzo® use resulted in 87% of men having a mean total testosterone 
concentration within the normal eugonadal range at the end of treatment. Jatenzo® is the first and only 
oral softgel testosterone undecanoate and the first oral testosterone approved in the US in over 60 years. 
There is no evidence at this time to support that Jatenzo® is safer or more effective than other currently 
preferred medications. 
Recommendation: Jatenzo® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Koselugo® (selumetinib); PDL category- Cancer 
Selumetinib, the active ingredient of Koselugo®, is a kinase inhibitor. It is an inhibitor of mitogen-activated 
protein kinases 1 and 2 (MEK1/2), which are upstream regulators of the extracellular signal-related kinase 
(ERK) pathway. Both MEK and ERK are critical components of the RAS-regulated RAF-MEK-ERK pathways, 
which is often activated in different types of cancers. It is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients 
2 years of age and older with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) who have symptomatic, inoperable 
plexiform neurofibromas (PN). The efficacy of Koselugo® was assessed in SPRINT phase II Stratum 1, an 
open label, multicenter, single arm study that included patients who were required to have NF1 with 
inoperable PN, defined as a PN that could not be completely removed without risk for substantial 
morbidity due to encasement of, or close proximity to, vital structures, invasiveness, or high vascularity 
of the PN. Patients were also required to have significant morbidity related to the target PN. The median 
age of included pediatric patients was 10.2 years (range 3.5 to 17.4 years), while 60% were male and 84% 
were white. The major efficacy outcome measure was overall response rate (ORR), defined as the 
percentage of patients with complete response (defined as disappearance of the target PN) or confirmed 
partial response (defined as ≥20% reduction in PN volume conformed at a subsequent tumor assessment 
within 3-6 months). It is the first agent FDA approved as treatment for this rare condition. Its efficacy was 
--- Page 8 ---
8 
based on a single arm study that included pediatric patients (N=50) who had an overall response rate of 
66%. 
Recommendation: Koselugo® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Nexletol® (bempedoic); PDL category- Lipotropics, Non- Statins 
Bempedoic acid, the active ingredient of Nexletol®, is an adenosine triphosphate-citrate luase (ACL) 
inhibitor that lowers LDL-C by inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in the liver. ACL is an enzyme upstream 
of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase in the cholesterol biosynthesis 
pathway. Bempedoic acic and its active metabolite (ESP15528) required coenzyme A (CoA) activation by 
very long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 1 (ACSVL1) to ETC-1002-CoA and ESP15228-CoA, respectively. 
ASCVL1 is expressed mainly in the liver. Inhibition of ACL by ETC-1002-CoA results in decreased cholesterol 
synthesis in the liver and lowers LDL-C in blood via upregulation of low-density lipoprotein receptors. It is 
indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with 
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease who 
require additional lowering of LDL-C. The effect of Nexletol® on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality 
has not been determined. The primary outcome was the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) 
total score, with the PANSS total score ranging from 30 to 210 with higher scores reflecting greater overall 
symptom severity. Results suggested that compared to placebo, patients randomized to Caplyta® 42mg 
demonstrated a statistically significant reduction from baseline to day 28 in the PANSS total score. The 
effect of Nexletol® on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 
Recommendation: Nexletol® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Nurtec® ODT (rimegepant tablet, orally disintegrating); PDL category- Antimigraine Agents 
Rimegepant, the active ingredient of Nurtec® ODT, is a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor 
antagonist. It is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Nurtec® ODT 
is not indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine. The efficacy of Nurtec® ODT for the acute 
treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults was assessed in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled study. 
Recommendation: Nurtec® ODT be non-preferred. Additional changes in the Migraine- Selective 
serotonin agonist(5HT)- Injectables Imitrex vial, Imitrex cartridge, Sumatriptan syringe and Sumatriptan 
pen injection will be preferred and the Imitrex pen injection will be non-preferred. In the Migraine- 
Selevtive Serotonin Agonists (5HT)- Tablets/Nasal Sumatriptan nasal spray and Zolmitriptan tablets will 
be preferred and Imitrex nasal spray and Migranal nasal spray will be non-preferred. 
Clinical criteria: 
o Dosing limits apply, please see the dose consolidation list. 
o Migranal nasal spray established users will be grandfathered. 
--- Page 9 ---
9 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Palforzia® (peanut (Arachis hypogaea) allergen powder-dnfp); PDL category- Allergen Immunotherapy 
Palforzia (peanut [Arachis hypogaea) allergen powder-dnfp) is a powder for oral administration 
manufactured from defatted peanut flower. The exact mechanism of action has not been established. It 
is indicated for the mitigation of allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, that may occur with accidental 
exposure to peanut. Palforzia® is approved for use in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of peanut 
allergy. Initial dose escalation may be administered to patients aged 4 through 17 years. Up-dosing and 
maintenance may be continued in patients 4 years of age and older. Palforzia® is to be used in conjunction 
with a peanut-avoidant diet. It is not indicated for the emergency treatment of allergic reactions, including 
anaphylaxis. The efficacy of Palforzia® for the mitigation of allergic reactions was assessed in a phase 3, 
randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial that included patients with peanut allergy 
aged 4 through 55 years. There is a box warning listed with Parforzia®, warning of the risk of anaphylaxis, 
which can be life-threatening and can occur at any time during Palforzia® therapy. It is the first therapy 
approved for peanut allergy. In a large study, the use of peanut allergen-dnfp compared with placebo 
resulted in a significantly greater number of patients able to ingest a single-dose of 600mg of peanut 
protein during the exit food challenge in patients 4 to 17 years of age, but not among patients 18 to 55 
years of age. Response rates were not significantly different in the various doses for adults 18 to 55 years 
of age. 
Recommendation: Palforzia® Pen be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Palforzia® is approved for use in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of peanut allergy. 
Initial dose escalation may be administered to patients aged 4 through 17 years. Up-
dosing and maintenance may be continued in patients 4 years of age and older. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Pemazyre® (pemigatinib); PDL category- Cancer 
Pemigatinib, the active ingredient of Pemazyre®, is a kinase inhibitor. It is a small molecule kinase inhibitor 
that targets fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 1, 2, and 3. It is indicated for the treatment of adults 
with previously treated, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast 
growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or other rearrangement as detected by an FDA approved test. 
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of 
response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of 
clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). The efficacy of Pemazyre® was assessed in a multicenter, open-
label, single arm study that included patients with locally advanced unresectable to metastatic 
cholangiocarcinoma whose disease had progressed on or after at least 1 prior therapy and who had an 
FGFR2 gene fusion or non-fusion rearrangement. This indication is approved under accelerated approval 
based on overall response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be 
contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). In a single arm, 
open-label study (N=107), 36% had an overall response rate, with 33% having a partial response. 
Recommendation: Pemazyre® be non-preferred. 
--- Page 10 ---
10 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Sarclisa® (isatuximab-irfc); PDL category- Cancer 
Isatuximab-irfc, the active ingredient of Sarclisa®, is a CD380 directed cytolytic antibody, a chimeric 
immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody. It binds to CD38 expressed on the surface of 
hematopoietic and tumor cells, including multiple myeloma cells, inducing apoptosis of tumor cells and 
activation of immune effector mechanisms. Isatuximab-irfc can activate natural killer cells in the absence 
of CD38-positive target tumor cells and suppresses CD38-positive T-regulatory cells. It is indicated in the 
combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adults with multiple myeloma 
who have received at least 2 prior therapies, including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor. The 
efficacy of Sarclisa® in combination with pomalidomide and low dose dexamethasone as compared with 
pomalidomide and low dose dexamethasone was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, open-label, 2-
arm, phase 3 study (ICARIA-MM) that included patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma 
(MM). The efficacy of Sarclisa® was based on progression-free survival (PFS). PFS results were assessed by 
an Independent Response Committee based on central lab data for M-protein and central radiologic 
imaging review using the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Pre-infusion 
medications should be administered, and Sarclisa should be administered by a healthcare professional 
with immediate access to emergency equipment and appropriate medical support to manage infusion-
related reactions if they occur. In an active-comparator trial, the improvement in progression free survival 
represented a 40% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death in patients treated with Sarclisa®. 
Recommendation: Sarclisa® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Talicia® (omeprazole magnesium, amoxicillin, & rifabutn capsules, delayed release); PDL category- GI- 
Ulcer Anti-infective 
Talicia delayed-release capsules contain omeprazole magnesium (a proton pump inhibitor), amoxicillin (a 
semisynthetic antibacterial agent), and rifabutin (an antibacterial agent). It is indicated for the treatment 
of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in adults. The safety efficacy of Talicia® were assessed in a 
randomized, double-blind, controlled study that included treatment-naïve H. pylori-positive adult patients 
complaining of epigastric pain/discomfort. It is the first and only FDA approved rifabutin-based H. pylori 
therapy, designed to deal with the growing bacterial resistance of clarithromycin-based standard-of-care 
therapy. In a clinical trial compared with placebo, Talicia had a statistically significantly higher eradication 
rate. In a second study compared with a control of omeprazole and high dose amoxicillin, Talicia® also had 
a statistically significantly higher eradication rate. 
Recommendation: Talicia® be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Trijardy® XR (empagliflozin, linagliptin and metformin ER); PDL category- SGLT2 Inhibitor Combinations 
--- Page 11 ---
11 
Trijardy® XR is a fixed dose combination tablet that consists of an extended-release metformin (a 
biguanide) core tablet that is coated with the immediate-release drug substances of empagliflozin (a 
sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 [SGLT2] inhibitor) and linagliptin (a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 [DPP-4] 
inhibitor). It is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 
2 DM. Empagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 DM and 
established cardiovascular disease. There were 3 clinical trials reported in the Trijardy® XR clinical trial 
section. Two studies were those included with the prescribing information for empagliflozin (brand name 
Jardiance®) and one study was included with the prescribing information for linagliptin (brand name 
Tradjenta®). These agents, along with metformin, have been available for numerous years and have 
proven to be safe and effective. Note that Trijardy XR is not recommended for patients with type 1 DM or 
for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. In addition, Trijardy XR has not been studied in patients with a 
history of pancreatitis. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at an increased 
risk for the development of pancreatitis while using Trijardy® XR. Trijardy® XR is the first FDA approved 
triple-combination therapy with Jardiance (empagliflozin). 
Recommendation: Trijardy® XR to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Tukysa® (tucatinib); PDL category- Cancer 
Tucatinib, the active ingredient of Tukysa®, is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of HER2. In vitro, tucatinib inhibits 
phosphorylation of HER2 and HER3, resulting in inhibition of downstream MAPK and AKT signaling and 
cell proliferation, and demonstrated anti-tumor activity in HER2 expressing tumor cells. The combination 
of tucatinib and trastuzumab demonstrated increased anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo as compared 
to either drug alone. It indicated in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine for the treatment of 
adult patients with advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer, including patients 
with brain metastases, who have received one or more prior anti-HER2-based regimens in the metastatic 
setting. The efficacy of Tukysa® in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine was assessed in a 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that included patients required to have HER2-positive, 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer, with or without brain metastases. In a placebo-
controlled trial, Tukysa® significantly prolonged median progression free survival and median overall 
survival as compared with placebo. 
Recommendation: Tukysa® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Valtoco® (diazepam spray); PDL category- Anticonvulsants 
Diazepam, the active ingredient of Valtoco®, is a benzodiazepine anticonvulsant. The exact mechanism of 
action for diazepam is not fully understood, but it is thought to involve potentiation of GABAergic 
neurotransmission resulting from binding at the benzodiazepine site of the GABA-A receptor. It is 
indicated for the acute treatment of intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity (i.e. 
seizure clusters, active repetitive seizures) that are distinct from a patient’s usual seizure pattern in 
patients with epilepsy 6 years of age and older. Valtoco® has a box warning regarding the risks from 
concomitant use with opioids. Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound 
--- Page 12 ---
12 
sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for 
use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are not adequate. Limit dosages and duration to 
the minimum required. Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. 
The efficacy of Valtoco® is based on the relative bioavailability of Valtoco® nasal spray as compared to 
diazepam rectal gel in healthy adults. The efficacy of diazepam rectal gel has been established in 2 
adequate and well-controlled clinical studies in children and adults exhibiting seizure patterns. The 
efficacy of Valtoco® is based on the relative bioavailability of Valtoco® nasal spray compared to diazepam 
rectal gel in healthy adults. 
Recommendation: Valtoco® to be preferred. Additional changes Diazepam gel and Nayzilam will be 
preferred. Diastat will be moved to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Quantity limit. 5/month 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Vyepti® (eptinezumab- jjimr); PDL category- Antimigraine Agents 
Eptinezumab-jjmr, the active ingredient of Vypeti®, is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal 
antibody specific for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) ligand. It binds to CGRP ligand and blocks its 
binding to the receptor. It is indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine adults. The efficacy of 
Vyepti® was assessed as a preventive treatment of episodic and chronic migraine in 2 randomized, 
multicenter, placebo-controlled studies, both with 6-month double-blind periods. In clinical studies 
compared with placebo, Vyepti® treatment demonstrated statistically significant improvements 
compared to placebo for the primary endpoint of the change from baseline in mean monthly migraine 
days over months 1-3. These studies included adults with episodic or chronic migraine. The studies were 
6 months in duration, but the primary endpoint included results at 12 weeks. Comparator studies against 
other active treatments were not found. 
Recommendation: Vypeti® to be non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
o Dosing limits apply, please see the dose consolidation list. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Xepi® (ozenoxacin cream); PDL category- Topical- Antibiotics 
Ozenoxacin, the active ingredient of Xepi®, is a quinolone antimicrobial agent. It’s mechanism of action 
involves the inhibition of bacterial DNA replication enzymes, DNA gyrase A, and topoisomerase IV. It is 
indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus pyogenes 
in adult and pediatric patients 2 months of age and older. The safety and efficacy of Xepi® were assessed 
in two multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. In 2 clinical trials, Xepi had a 
significantly higher treatment success as compared with placebo. There is no evidence at this time to 
support that Xepi® cream is safer or more effective than the currently preferred medications. 
--- Page 13 ---
13 
Recommendation: Xepi® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
Zerviate® (cetirizine solution/drops); PDL category- Op- Anti-Allergics 
Cetirizine, the active ingredient of Zerviate®, is a histamine-1 (H1) receptor antagonist and an inhibitor of 
release of histamine from mast cells. It is indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with 
allergic conjunctivitis. The efficacy of Zerviate® was established in 3 randomized, double-masked, placebo-
controlled, conjunctival allergen challenge (CAC) clinical trials that included patients with a history of 
allergic conjunctivitis. In 2 clinical trials, patients treated with Zerviate® demonstrated statistically and 
clinically significantly less ocular itching as compared to vehicle at both 15 minutes and 8 hours after 
treatment. There is no evidence at this time to support that Zerviate® is safer or more effective than the 
currently preferred, more cost-effective medications. 
Recommendation: Zerviate® to be non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
FDA SAFETY ALERTS 
Clozaril, Fazaclo ODT, Versacloz (clozapine): Drug Safety Communication - FDA Strengthens 
Warning That Untreated Constipation Can Lead to Serious Bowel Problems 
https://www.fda.gov/safety/medical-product-safety-information/clozaril-fazaclo-odt-versacloz-
clozapine-drug-safety-communication-fda-strengthens-warning-
untreated?utm_campaign=FDA%20MedWatch%3AClozaril%2C%20Fazaclo%20ODT%2C%20V
ersacloz%20%28clozapine%29-
%20Drug%20Safety%20Communication&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua 
FDA Approves Three Drugs for Nonprescription Use Through Rx-to-OTC Switch Process 
https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-approves-three-drugs-
nonprescription-use-through-rx-otc-switch-
process?utm_campaign=022420_PR_FDA%20Approves%20Three%20Drugs%20for%20Nonpre
scription%20Use&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua 
Singulair (montelukast) and All Montelukast Generics: Strengthened Boxed Warning - Due to 
Restricting Use for Allergic Rhinitis 
https://www.fda.gov/safety/medical-product-safety-information/singulair-montelukast-and-all-
montelukast-generics-strengthened-boxed-warning-due-restricting-
use?utm_campaign=FDA%20MedWatch%20Singulair%20%28montelukast%29%3A%20Strengt
hened%20Boxed%20Warning&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua 
FDA Approves Label Changes to SGLT2 Inhibitors Regarding Temporary Discontinuation of 
Medication Before Scheduled Surgery 
http://s2027422842.t.en25.com/e/es?s=2027422842&e=312214&elqTrackId=376c7bc788024cd5
a73d955f2e3dcbdc&elq=d700e2d071b343878fdae02a4ebbbf19&elqaid=11643&elqat=1 
FDA alerts patients and health care professionals of EpiPen (epinephrine) and EpiPen Jr 
(epinephrine) auto-injector errors related to device malfunctions and user administration 
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-alerts-patients-and-health-care-
professionals-epipen-auto-injector-errors-related-
device?utm_campaign=FDA%20alerts%20patients%20and%20health%20care%20professionals
%20of%20EpiPen%20auto-injector%20errors&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua 
FDA Requests Removal of All Ranitidine Products (Zantac) from the Market 
--- Page 14 ---
14 
https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-requests-removal-all-ranitidine-
products-zantac-
market?utm_campaign=040120_PR_FDA%20Requests%20Removal%20of%20Ranitidine%20Pr
oducts%20%28Zantac%29%20from%20the%20Market&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqu
a 
FDA Approves Label Changes for Montelukast (Singulair) Regarding the Potential Risk of Serious 
Mental Health Side Effects 
http://s2027422842.t.en25.com/e/es?s=2027422842&e=328327&elqTrackId=376c7bc788024cd5
a73d955f2e3dcbdc&elq=bb3dd6d269764f269f7b497fd4704f1b&elqaid=12344&elqat=1 
FDA cautions against use of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine for COVID-19 outside of the 
hospital setting or a clinical trial due to risk of heart rhythm problems 
http://s2027422842.t.en25.com/e/es?s=2027422842&e=326625&elqTrackId=376c7bc788024cd5
a73d955f2e3dcbdc&elq=ac707a3bff784a399dcd62181c0aa736&elqaid=12264&elqat=1 
Board Decision: No formal action required 
ADJOURNMENT: 8:30PM 
The next meeting will be held on September 8, 2020 5:30pm –8:30pm at the Augusta Armory.