STATE: Maine
GROUP: group-b
URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/dam/ffs-medicare/me/dur/mainedur06142022meetingminutesfinal.pdf
SEED_URL: https://www.mainecarepdl.org/content/mainecarepdl/en/drug-utilization-review
SOURCE_ROLE: linked from capped seed: June 14, 2022
STATUS: 200
CONTENT_TYPE: application/pdf
TITLE: 

--- Page 1 ---
Maine Department of Health and Human Services 
Office of MaineCare Services - Pharmacy Unit 
11 State House Station 
Augusta, Maine 04333-0011 
Toll Free: (866) 796-2463; TTY: Dial 711 (Maine Relay) 
Fax: (207) 287-8601 
Janet T. Mills 
Governor 
Jeanne M. Lambrew, Ph.D. 
Commissioner 
TO: 
Maine Drug Utilization Review Board 
DATE: 06/16/22 
RE: Maine DUR Board Meeting minutes from June 14, 2022 
ATTENDANCE 
PRESENT 
ABSENT 
EXCUSED 
Linda Glass, MD 
X 
Lisa Wendler, Pharm. D., Clinical Pharmacy Specialist, 
Maine Medical CTR 
X 
Kathleen Polonchek, MD 
X 
Erin Ackley, PharmD. 
X 
Corinn Normandin, PharmD. 
X 
Caitlin Morrow, PharmD. 
X 
Non –Voting 
Mike Ouellette, R.Ph., Change Healthcare 
X 
Jacquelyn Hedlund, MD, Change Healthcare 
X 
Anne-Marie Toderico, PharmD MaineCare Pharmacy Director 
X 
Guests of the Board: Fran Jensen, OMS Medical Director 
CALL TO ORDER: 6:30PM 
Erin Ackley called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Hannah Longley from NAMI Maine: Highlighted to the DUR committee on behalf of our members that 
patient factors should also be taken into consideration when making formulary decisions. 
Nitin Beri from Genetech: Highlighted the attributes of Vabysmo. 
Victoria Romo-Le Tourneau from Pfizer: Highlighted the attributes of Cibinqo. 
Christopher Ngai from Calliditas: Highlighted the attributes of Tarpeyo. 
Chikezie Okoro from Bristol Myers Squibb: Highlighted the attributes of Opdualag. 
Timothy Birner from Alkermes: Highlighted the attributes of Lybalvi. 
Beth D’Ambrosio from Novartis: Highlighted the attributes of Vijoice. 
Jannetta Bekman from Abbvie: Highlighted the attributes of Vraylar. 
OLD BUSINESS 
DUR MINUTES 
Approval of March 08, 2022, DUR meeting minutes. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
MAINECARE UPDATE- ANNE-MARIE TODERICO 
--- Page 2 ---
2 
• 
Thanked Kenneth “Mac” McCall, PharmD, BCGP, FAPhA, and Corinn Normandin, PharmD, 
BCACP, CDOE for their distinguished service to the MaineCare Drug Utilization Review 
committee. 
• 
Welcomed Caitlin Morrow, PharmD, BCACP, to the MaineCare Drug Utilization Review 
committee. She is joining this month as a non-voting member and will be a voting member at 
our September 2022 meeting. 
• 
Shared that through our partnership with the Governor’s Opioid Response Clinical Advisory 
Committee, MaineCare adapted our buprenorphine/naloxone prior authorization (PA) 
requirements and have increased access to medications for the treatment of opioid use 
disorder. A recent claim review showed a 46% reduction in the number of PAs. 
• 
MaineCare implemented a Biosimilar Preferred Drug List (PDL) on the medical benefit. 
MaineCare will now designate preferred and non-preferred medications for infliximab, 
pegfilgrastim, bevacizumab and trastuzumab. The Biosimilar PDL rule making is final and the 
PDL aligns with our pharmacy PDL. The rule will be enforced beginning July 13. This gives 
providers two months to work through their current stock of non-preferred agents 
REVISED CLINICAL CRITERIA/PREFERRED REVIEW 
Spravato criteria: 
Spravato: Treatment Resistant Depression 
• Must be 18 years of age or older; and medication must be administered under the direct, on 
site, supervision of a licensed healthcare provider with post-administration observation of a 
minimum of least 2-hours. The medication must be prescribed by or in consultation with a 
psychiatrist and prescriber must be enrolled in the REMS program. 
• Approval is based upon failure of at least two antidepressants and failure of an 
antidepressant used adjunctively with one recognized augmentation strategy such as lithium, 
an atypical antipsychotic, thyroid hormone, etc 
• Ongoing use of Spravato beyond 3 months is based upon a positive response as evidenced by 
at least a 30 % reduction from baseline as measured by a standardized rating scale including 
PHQ 9, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, or QIDS). 
Spravato: MDD with Suicidal Ideation 
Approval for this indication only if it is started in an inpatient unit, given adjunctively with an 
optimized antidepressant regimen, and with an 8-12 week initial approval with ongoing use 
dependent upon documentation of ongoing benefit. 
Invega Hafyera criteria: 
Invega Hafyera: The patient is started and stabilized on the medication OR The 
patient has been adequately treated with Invega Sustenna (paliperidone palmitate 
1-month) for at least four months or Invega Trinza (paliperidone palmitate 3- 
month) following at least one 3-month injection cycle. 
Lybalvi criteria: 
Lybalvi: Step through aripiprazole and Latuda. If criteria is met then initial approval for 3 
months. Subsequent approvals will be based on evidence of not gaining >= 10 % baseline body 
--- Page 3 ---
3 
weight for ongoing approval. If weight gain >= 10 % of initial body weight, then criteria for 
ongoing use not met. 
Livtencity criteria: 
Livtencity is a substrate of CYP3A4. Coadministration of Livtencity® with strong inducers of 
CYP3A4 is not recommended, except for selected anticonvulsants. Must show failure or 
contraindication to all the following ganciclovir, valganciclovir, cidofovir and foscarnet before 
Livtencity will be approved. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
NEW BUSINESS 
INTRODUCE: OPIOID USE FROM MULTIPLE PROVIDER 
Monitoring of opioid prescribing has been a focus of federal and state medical agencies for several 
years. Prescription monitoring systems have been instituted, and prescribers must query the database 
before writing an opioid prescription for patients. The database includes information about the 
prescriber, the dispensing pharmacy, the payment methods (including cash) and the dates, names and 
doses of the opioids prescribed. It is important that providers utilize the system to be sure that 
members are not getting multiple prescriptions of opioids inappropriately. In theory, this tracking should 
minimize provider shopping to get opioids beyond what has been prescribed by one provider. 
Per the Chapter 11 Rule of the Maine Legislature, Rules Governing the Controlled Substances 
Prescription Monitoring Program and Prescription of Opioid Medications, pharmacy requirements also 
exist to help prevent opioid misuse. Pharmacists must review: 
1. the aggregate MMEs for the patient. 
2. the number of prescribers currently prescribing any controlled substances to the patient. 
3. the number of pharmacies currently filling controlled substance prescriptions for the patient. 
4. if the patient is from out of state. 
5. if the patient pays cash. 
6. if there are no opioids prescribed in the past 12 months. 
The pharmacist is expected to decline filling the prescription until contact is made with the prescriber to 
communicate concerning information and verify that the prescriber still wants to prescribe the 
medication. The database includes information about the prescriber, the dispensing pharmacy, the 
payment methods (including cash) and the dates, names and doses of the opioids prescribed. It is 
important that providers utilize the system to be sure that members are not getting multiple 
prescriptions of opioids inappropriately. In theory, this tracking should minimize provider shopping to 
get opioids beyond what has been prescribed by one provider. 
Additionally, credentialing and quality assessment agencies, such as HEDIS, are using opioid prescribing 
and monitoring to measure quality and these ratings are being used by payers and the public alike. We 
will use paid, non-reversed Medicaid pharmacy claims from calendar year 2021, excluding members 
with Part D, MaineRX and TPL. We will identify all adult members receiving prescriptions for opioids 
from four or more different prescribers during the year. The analysis will only include prescriptions 
billed through Maine Medicaid. It will not include cash prescriptions. For those with multiple prescribers 
we will look to see if there was dose escalation and if any of the prescriptions overlapped. 
--- Page 4 ---
4 
Board Decision: None at this time 
PRESENTATION: CONCURRENT USE OF GPL-1 RECEPTOR AGONISTS, DPP-4 INHIBITORS 
Treatment for Type 2 DM has improved substantially in the last decade. Several effective classes of 
medications are now available, including glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 agonists), 
sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT-2 inhibitors) and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors 
(DPP-4 inhibitors, also called gliptins), along with older medications, such as sulfonylureas and insulin. 
Recent guidelines from the American Diabetes Associate and the American Society of Endocrinology 
incorporate these newer agents into treatment algorithms, often recommending considering these 
drugs before starting insulin therapy. Some of these agents have beneficial effects on other risks, such 
as heart failure and other cardiovascular diseases and determining which drugs to use depends on an 
individual’s health profile. GLP-1 receptor agonists work by stimulating insulin secretion and decreasing 
glucagon production. DPP-4 inhibitors prevent the degradation of GLP-1. Both have shown benefit in 
lowering blood glucose, however comparative trials have shown GLP-1 receptor agonists to be superior 
in improving glycemic control and inducing weight loss. Studies have shown that combining a GLP-1 
agonist with a DPP-4 inhibitor provides minimal improvement in glycemic control and weight loss 
compared with either monotherapy and is not cost effective. Guidelines do not support combined 
therapy with these drugs. We looked at all members with a diagnosis of Type II DM to identify if any are 
being prescribed both a DDP-4 inhibitor and GLP-1 agonist to determine if the practice is widespread or 
isolated among a few providers. This will determine if there should be adjustment to the PDL, PA 
process or if provider education is warranted. 
Recommendation: Most of the members were not on overlapping prescriptions and many who were on 
them took them together for a relatively short period of time, likely a transition phase from one drug to 
another. Only 49 members were on both for more than 180 days. Given the large number of potential 
prescribers of medications to treat diabetes, a general educational reminder might be in order. 
Alternatively, identification of the prescribers who have members on both medications for more than 
180 days would allow for a more targeted educational approach. It is a bit concerning that some 
members are getting their diabetes medications from completely different prescribers for all claims 
filed. An analysis of that cohort of members/claims might also be helpful to explain why that is 
happening, as it could be dangerous if each prescriber is unaware of the other. 
Board Decision: After board discussion it was decided that Change Healthcare would look into the 
prescriber’s specialty and if it is primarily primary care providers prescribing then a targeted educational 
mailing could be done. 
NEW DRUG REVIEW 
Camcevi® (Leuprolide); PDL category- Cancer 
Leuprolide mesylate, the active ingredient of Camcevi®, is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally 
occurring gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and is a GnRH agonist. It acts as an inhibitor of 
gonadotropin secretion. Animal and human studies indicate that following an initial stimulation of 
gonadotropins, chronic administration of leuprolide results in suppression of ovarian and testicular 
steroidogenesis. This effect is reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy. In humans, subcutaneous 
(SC) administration of leuprolide results in an initial increase of circulating levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) 
--- Page 5 ---
5 
and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), leading to a transient increase in levels of the gonadal steroids 
(testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males); however, continuous daily administration of leuprolide 
results in decreased levels of LH and FSH. In males, testosterone is reduced to below castration levels. These 
decreases generally occur within 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of treatment, and castration levels of 
testosterone in prostatic cancer patients have been demonstrated for periods of up to 5 years. It is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced prostate cancer. The efficacy of Camcevi® was 
assessed in an open-label, single-arm, multinational study that included patients with advanced prostate 
carcinoma who had a baseline morning serum testosterone level >150ng/dL and an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group performance status ≤2. In the clinical trial, PSA levels were monitored and were lowered on 
average by 51% after 4 weeks after Camcevi® administration, 83% after 3 months and remained suppressed 
throughout the 48 weeks of treatment. These PSA results should be interpreted with caution because of the 
heterogeneity of the patient population studied. No evidence has shown that the rapidity of PSA decline 
correlates with clinical benefit. he efficacy of Camcevi® was assessed in an open-label, single-arm study that 
included a population with a median age of 71 years. The main efficacy outcome measure was medical 
castration rate, defined as achieving and maintaining serum testosterone suppression to ≤50ng/dL by week 
4 through week 48 of treatment. After the first injection of Camcevi®, serum testosterone levels were 
suppressed to ≤50ng/dL by week 4 in 98.5% of patients and from week 4 through 48 in 97% of patients. 
Recommendation: Camcevi® to non-preferred. 
Cibinqo® (abrocitinib); PDL category- Topical- Atopic Dermatitis 
Abrocitinib, the active ingredient of Cibinqo®, is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. It reversibly inhibits JAK1 by 
blocking the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding site. In a cell-free isolated enzyme assay, abrocitinib was 
selective for JAK1 over JAK2, JAK3, and tyrosine kinase (TYK) 2, as well as the broader kinome. The relevance 
of inhibition of specific JAK enzymes to therapeutic effectiveness is not currently known. Treatment with 
Cibinqo® was associated with dose-dependent reduction in serum markers of inflammation, including high 
sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), interleukin-31 (IL-31), and thymus and activation regulated 
chemokine (TARC). These changes returned to near baseline within 4 weeks of drug discontinuation. It is 
indicated for the treatment of adults with refractory, moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is 
not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those 
therapies is inadvisable. Cibinqo® is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, 
biologic immunomodulators, or with other immunosuppressants. The safety and efficacy of Cibinqo® as 
monotherapy and in combination with background topical corticosteroids (TCS) were assessed in 3 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (Trial-AD-1, Trial-AD-2, and Trial-AD-3) that included 
subjects 12 years of age and older (N=1615) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis as defined by the 
Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) score ≥3, Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) score ≥16, body 
surface area (BSA) involvement ≥10%, and Peak Pruritus Numerical Rating Scale (PP-NRS) ≥4 at the baseline 
visit prior to randomization. (Note that Cibinqo® is not approved for use in pediatric patients.) 
Recommendation: Cibingo® to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: Adbry and Cibinqo: Preferred drugs also indicated for this condition, including topical 
steroids, cyclosporin AND calcineurin inhibitors must be tried and failed due to lack of efficacy or intolerable 
side effects before non-preferred drugs will be approved, unless an acceptable clinical exception is offered 
on the Prior Authorization form, such as the presence of a condition that prevents usage of the preferred 
drug or a significant potential drug interaction between another drug and the preferred drug(s) exists. 
Additionally, after trials above approvals would be granted for Mild Atopic Dermatitis: 1. Eucrisa, 2. 
--- Page 6 ---
6 
Opzelura. For Moderate Atopic Dermatitis: 1. Dupixent, 2. Rinvoq. For Moderate/Severe Atopic Dermatitis: 
1. Dupixent, 2. Rinvoq Note: If unable to use TCIs then a trial of Eucrisa could be recommended before 
Dupixent. 
Dartisla® (glycopyrrolate ODT); PDL category- GI- Anti-diarrheal/Antacid, Miscellneous 
Glycopyrrolate, the active ingredient of Dartisla® ODT, is an anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent. It inhibits 
the action of acetylcholine on parietal cells in the stomach and decreases the volume and acidity of gastric 
secretions. It is indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic 
ulcer. It is not indicated as monotherapy for treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer 
healing has not been established. There were no clinical trials identified in the prescribing information for 
Dartisla® ODT. Glycopyrrolate tablets, available as 1mg and 2mg tablets, have been available for numerous 
years and have been found to be safe and effective. They have the same indication as Dartisla® OTD. After 
Dartisla® ODT 1.7mg administration, the AUC and Cmax of glycopyrrolate were comparable to an oral 2mg 
glycopyrrolate tablet. Glycopyrrolate tablets (1mg and 2mg) have been available for several years and have 
the same indication as Dartisla® ODT. Dartisla® ODT offers prescribers a different dosage form. 
Recommendation: Dartisla ODT® to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
• 
It is not indicated as monotherapy for treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic 
ulcer healing has not been established. 
Fleqsuvy® (baclofen oral suspension) PDL category- Muscle Relaxants 
Baclofen, the active ingredient of Fleqsuvy®, is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA-ergic) agonist. While 
the exact mechanism of action is not fully understood, baclofen inhibits both monosynaptic and 
polysynaptic reflexes at the spinal level, possibly by decreasing excitatory neurotransmitter release from 
afferent terminals, although actions at supraspinal sites may also occur and contribute to its clinical effect. 
Baclofen is a structural analog of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and 
may exert its effects by stimulation of the GABA-B receptor subtype. Baclofen has been shown to have 
general CNS depressant properties, as indicated by the production of sedation with tolerance, 
somnolence, ataxia, and respiratory and cardiovascular depression. It is indicated for the treatment of 
spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis, particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant 
pain, clonus, and muscular rigidity. Fleqsuvy® may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord 
injuries and other spinal cord diseases. It is not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm 
resulting from rheumatic disorders. There are no clinical trials in the prescribing information for 
Fleqsuvy®. The efficacy of Fleqsuvy® is based upon a bioavailability study in healthy adults comparing 
baclofen oral tablets to Fleqsuvy®. A pharmacokinetic study in healthy adult male and female subjects 
under fasting conditions at a 20mg dose level demonstrated similar bioavailability for baclofen oral 
suspension and oral tablets. Baclofen oral tablets have been available for numerous years and have the 
same indication as Fleqsuvy®. Fleqsuvy® offers providers a treatment option in a different dosage 
formulation. 
Recommendation: Fleqsuvy® XR to non-preferred. 
Ibsrela® (tenapanor); PDL category- GI- Miscellaneous 
--- Page 7 ---
7 
Tenapanor, the active ingredient of Ibsrela®, is a locally acting inhibitor of the sodium/hydrogen exchanger 
3 (NHE3), an antiporter expressed on the apical surface of the small intestine and colon mainly responsible 
for the absorption of dietary sodium. In vitro and animal studies indicate its major metabolite (M1) is not 
active against NHE3. By inhibiting NHE3 on the apical surface of the enterocytes, tenapanor reduces 
absorption of sodium from the small intestine and colon, resulting in an increase in water secretion into 
the intestinal lumen, which accelerates intestinal transit time and results in a softer stool consistency. It 
is indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults. he safety 
and efficacy of Ibsrela® were assessed in two double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicenter 
trials that included adult patients with IBS-C (Trial 1 and Trial 2). his product does have a box warning 
regarding the risk of serious dehydration in pediatric patients. The warning adds that use is 
contraindicated in patients less than 6 years of age and should be avoided in patients 6 years to less than 
12 years of age. Furthermore, the safety and efficacy of use have not been established in the pediatric 
population less than 18 years of age. In 2 double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 studies, there were 
more CSBM responders and abdominal pain responders in those treated with Ibsrela® as compared with 
placebo. Per the full-text study by Chey et al2 (Trial 1), a significantly greater proportion in the tenapanor 
treatment group were 6/12-week combined responders as compared with placebo (p˂0.001). Per the full-
text study by Chey et al3 (Trial 2), a significantly greater proportion treated with tenapanor met the 
primary endpoint than placebo (p=0.020). Head-to-head comparator studies with other active agents with 
the same indication were not identified. 
Recommendation: Ibsrela® to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
• 
Preferred drugs must be tried and failed due to lack of efficacy or intolerable side effects before non-
preferred drugs will be approved, unless an acceptable clinical exception is offered on the Prior 
Authorization form, such as the presence of a condition that prevents usage of the preferred drug or 
a significant potential drug interaction between another drug and the preferred drug(s) exists. 
Certain drugs require specific diagnoses for approval. 
Kimmtrak® (tebentafusp-tebn); PDL category- Cancer 
Tebentafusp-tebn, the active ingredient of Kimmtrak®, is a bispecific gp100 peptide-HLA-A*02:01 directed 
T-cell receptor CD3 T- cell engager. The TCR arm binds to a gp100 peptide presented by human leukocyte 
antigen-A*02:01 (HLA-A*02:01) on the cell surface of uveal melanoma tumor cells. In vitro, tebentafusp-
tebn bound to HLA-A*02:01-positive uveal melanoma cells and activated polyclonal T cells to release 
inflammatory cytokines and cytolytic proteins, which results in direct lysis of uveal melanoma tumor cells. 
It is indicated for the treatment of HLA-A*02:01-positive adult patients with unresectable or metastatic 
uveal melanoma. The efficacy of Kimmtrak® was assessed in a randomized, open-label, multicenter study 
(IMCgp100-202) that enrolled patients with metastatic uveal melanoma (N=378). Patients were required 
to be HLA-A*02:01 genotype positive identified by a central assay. Prior surgical resection of 
oligometastatic disease was permitted. Note that patients with clinically significant cardiac disease or the 
presence of symptomatic or untreated brain metastasis were excluded. Patients were also excluded if 
they received prior systemic therapy for metastatic or advanced uveal melanoma or localized liver-
directed therapy. The main efficacy outcome was overall survival, and the number of deaths was 
significantly fewer in the Kimmtrak® arm compared to the active comparator arm (NNT 7; p˂0.0001). 
Recommendation: Kimmtrak® to non-preferred. 
--- Page 8 ---
8 
Opdualag® (nivolumab and relatimab-rmbw); PDL category- Cancer 
Nivolumab and relatlimab-rmbw, the active ingredients of Opdualag®, is a fixed-dose combination of two 
IgG4 kappa monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Nivolumab is a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) blocking 
antibody while relatlimab-rmbw is a lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) blocking antibody. Relatlimab-
rmbw binds to the LAG-3 receptor, blocks interaction with its ligands, and reduces LAG-3 pathway-
mediated inhibition of the immune response. Antagonism of this pathway promotes T cell proliferation 
and cytokine secretion. It is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age or 
older with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The efficacy of Opdualag® was assessed in a 
randomized, double-blind trial (N=714) that included patients with previously untreated metastatic or 
unresectable Stage III or IV melanoma. The efficacy of Opdualag® was assessed in a double-blind, active-
comparator study that included previously untreated metastatic or unresectable Stage III or IV melanoma 
patients (N=714). Results of this trial demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in progression 
free survival for patients randomized to Opdualag® compared with the nivolumab group. The final analysis 
of overall survival was not statistically significant. 
Recommendation: Opdualag ® to non-preferred. 
Pyrukynd® (mitapivat); PDL category- Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency Agents 
Mitapivat, the active ingredient of Pyrukynd®, is a pyruvate kinase activator that acts by allosterically 
binding to the pyruvate kinase tetramer and increasing pyruvate kinase (PK) activity. The red blood cell 
(RBC) form of pyruvate kinase (PK-R) is mutated in PK deficiency, which leads to reduced adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP), shortened RBC lifespan, and chronic hemolysis. It is indicated for the treatment of 
hemolytic anemia in adults with pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency. The efficacy of Pyrukynd® was assessed 
in a multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (ACTIVATE) that included adults 
with PK deficiency (N=80) who were not regularly transfused, defined as having had no more than 4 
transfusions in the 52-week period prior to treatment and no transfusions in the 3-month period prior to 
treatment. One small study assessed the efficacy of Pyrukynd® as compared with placebo in patients with 
PK deficiency not regularly transfused. Efficacy was based on Hb response, and statistically significantly 
more subjects in the Pyrukynd® group had a Hb response as compared with placebo (NNT 3, calculated 
by CHC). A second small study assessed the efficacy of Pyrukynd® in patients with PK deficiency who were 
regularly transfused. Efficacy was based on transfusion reduction response and 33% of study subjects met 
this primary endpoint. In addition, 22% were transfusion free. One noted reference source noted that “…it 
would be reasonable to try mitapivat in any individual with PK deficiency who requires transfusion.” 
Furthermore, it is noted that “mitapivat may also be reasonable in individuals with symptomatic anemia 
who do not require transfusions, and even in individuals with compensated hemolysis who do not have 
overt anemia…”. Overall the authors suggest mitapivat for adults with PK deficiency with symptomatic 
anemia (transfusion-dependent or not requiring transfusions). It is recommended that Pyrukynd® should 
be non-preferred in order to confirm the appropriate diagnosis and clinical parameters for use. 
Recommendation: Pyrukynd® to non-preferred. 
Seglentis® (celecoxib/tramadol HCl); PDL category- Narcotics- Selected 
Seglentis® is a combination product containing celecoxib (a NSAID) and tramadol (an opioid agonist and 
inhibitor of norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake). Celecoxib is an analgesic with anti-inflammatory 
and antipyretic properties. The mechanism of action is believed to be due to inhibition of prostaglandin 
--- Page 9 ---
9 
synthesis, primarily via inhibition of COX-2. While the mode of action of tramadol is not completely 
understood, the analgesic effect is believed to be due to both binding to μ-opioid receptors and weak 
inhibition of reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Seglentis® is a Schedule IV controlled substance. 
Tramadol is a substance with a high potential for abuse similar to other opioids and can be abused and is 
subject to misuse, addiction, and criminal diversion. Both tolerance and physical dependence can develop 
during opioid therapy. It is indicated for the management of acute pain in adults that is severe enough to 
require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Because of the risks of 
addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve Seglentis® for use in 
patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated, 
or are not expected to be tolerated and have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to 
provide adequate analgesia. The safety and efficacy of Seglentis® were assessed in a randomized, double-
blind, parallel group study comparing Seglentis® to tramadol, celecoxib, and placebo that included adults 
(N=637) that were 18 years of age or older (age ranged from 18 and 77 years) with acute post-operative 
pain (≥5 and ≤9 on a 0-10 Numeric Pain Rating Scale [NPRS]) following unilateral first metatarsal 
osteotomy with internal fixation. Patients were randomized to Seglentis® 200mg BID, tramadol 50mg 
Q6H, celecoxib 100mg BID, or placebo in a double-blind, double-dummy manner. Use of rescue 
medication (acetaminophen and oxycodone) was permitted during the study. Seglentis® has a box 
warning with numerous increased risks. In one double-blind, double-dummy study that compared 
Seglentis® with tramadol, celecoxib, and placebo, results suggested that Seglentis® had statistically 
significantly better mean SPID48 scores (primary endpoint) as compared with placebo or either of the 
individual ingredients of Seglentis®. 
Recommendation: Seglentis® to non-preferred. 
Clinical criteria: 
• 
Only available if component ingredients are unavailable. 
Tarpeyo® (budesonide capsule, delayed release) PDL category- Hematological Agent- IgAN 
Budesonide, the active ingredient of Tarpeyo®, is a synthetic corticosteroid with potent glucocorticoid 
activity and weak mineralocorticoid activity that undergoes substantial first pass metabolism. Mucosal B-
cells present in the ileum, including the Peyer’s patches, express glucocorticoid receptors and are 
responsible for the production of galactose-deficient IgA1 antibodies (Gd-Ag1) causing IgA nephropathy. 
Through their anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects at the glucocorticoid receptor, 
corticosteroids can modulate B-cell numbers and activity. It has not been established to what extent the 
efficacy of Tarpeyo® is mediated vial local effects in the ileum vs systemic effects. It is indicated to reduce 
proteinuria in adults with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk of rapid disease 
progression, generally a urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥1.5g/g. This indication is approved 
under accelerated approval based on a reduction in proteinuria. It has not been established whether 
Tarpeyo® slows kidney function decline in patients with IgAN. Continued approval for this indication may 
be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory clinical trial. The effect 
of Tarpeyo® on proteinuria was assessed in a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study that included 
patients with biopsy-proven IgAN, eGFR ≥35ml/min/1.73m2, and proteinuria (defined as either ≥1g/day 
or UPCR ≥0.8g/g) who were on a stable dose of maximally-tolerated RAS inhibitor therapy. In a double-
blind study, the Tarpeyo® group had a 34% reduction in UPCR at 9 months compared to baseline while 
the placebo group had a 5% reduction in UPCR. This result was statistically significant in favor of Tarpeyo®. 
Recommendation: Add new PDL category Hematological Agents-IgAN. Tarpeyo® to non-preferred. 
--- Page 10 ---
10 
Clinical Criteria: 
• 
PA required to confirm FDA approved indication. 
Tivdak® (tisotumab vedotin-tftv); PDL category- Cancer 
Tisotumab vedotin-tftv, the active ingredient of Tivdak®, is a Tissue Factor (TF) directed antibody drug 
conjugate (ADC) comprised of a human anti-TF IgG1-kappa antibody conjugated to the microtubule-
disrupting agent monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) via a protease-cleavable vc (valine-citrulline) linker. 
The antibody is a human IgG1 directed against cell surface TF. TF is the primary initiator of the extrinsic 
blood coagulation cascade. The small molecule, MMAE, is a microtubule-disrupting agent, attached to the 
antibody via a protease-cleavable linker. Nonclinical data suggests that the anticancer activity of 
tisotumab vedotin-tftv is due to the binding of the ADC to TF expressing cancer cells, followed by 
internalization of the ADC-TF complex, and release of MMAE via proteolytic cleavage. MMAE disrupts the 
microtubule network of actively dividing cells, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In vitro, 
tisotumab vedotin-tftv also mediates antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis and antibody-dependent 
cellular cytotoxicity. It is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical 
cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. This indication is approved under accelerated 
approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response. Continued approval for this indication 
may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. The efficacy 
of Tivdak® was assessed in an open-label, multicenter, single-arm trial that included patients with 
recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer who had received no more than 2 prior systemic regimens in the 
recurrent or metastatic setting, including at least one prior platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. The 
primary efficacy outcome of confirmed objective response rate was 24%. 
Recommendation: Tivdak® to non-preferred. 
Twyneo® (trtinoin & benzoyl peroxide cream); PDL category- Topical- Acne preroxide cream 
Twyneo® cream is a combination of tretinoin and benzoyl peroxide. Tretinoin is a retinoid and benzoyl 
peroxide is an oxidizing agent. It is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and 
pediatric patients 9 years of age and older. The safety and efficacy of Twyneo cream® were assessed in 
two randomized, double-blind, multicenter, vehicle-controlled trials of identical design that included 
subjects 9 years of age and older with facial acne vulgaris (N=858). Patients were treated once daily with 
either Twyneo® cream or vehicle for 12 weeks. Subjects were required to have a score of moderate (3) 
or severe (4) on the Investigator Global Assessment (IGA), 20 to 100 inflammatory lesions (papules, 
pustules, and nodules), 30 to 150 non-inflammatory lesions (open and closed comedones) and two or 
fewer facial nodules. Treatment success at week 12 (one of the co-primary efficacy endpoints) was 
obtained more frequently with Twyneo® than vehicle (NNT of 4 for study 1 and NNT of 9 for study 2). 
Comparator studies with active ingredients were not found. 
Recommendation: Twyneo® to non-preferred. 
Vabysmo® (faricimab- svoa); PDL category- Op- Of Interest 
Faricimab-svoa, the active ingredient of Vabysmo®, is a humanized bispecific immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) 
antibody that binds to both vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2). It 
is a humanized bispecific antibody that acts through inhibition of two pathways by binding to VEGF-A and 
--- Page 11 ---
11 
Ang-2. By inhibiting VEGF-A, faricimab suppresses endothelial cell proliferation, neovascularization, and 
vascular permeability. By inhibiting Ang-2, faricimab is thought to promote vascular stability and 
desensitize blood vessels to the effects of VEGF-A. Ang-2 levels are increased in some patients with nAMD 
and DME (see below). The contribution of Ang-2 inhibition to the treatment effect and clinical response 
for nAMD and DME has yet to be established. It is indicated for the treatment of patients with Neovascular 
(wet) Age-Related Macular Degeneration (nAMD) and Diabetic Macular Edema (DME). The safety and 
efficacy of Vabysmo® were assessed in 2 randomized, multicenter, double-masked, active-comparator 
controlled, identically-designed 2-year studies in patients with nAMD. In both studies, Vabysmo® treated 
patients had a non-inferior mean change from baseline in BCVA compared to patients treated with 
aflibercept. In all studies, results demonstrated non-inferiority of Vabysmo® to the comparator control 
(aflibercept) for the primary endpoint, defined as the mean change from baseline in BCVA at year 1 (when 
averaged over the week 40, 44, and 48 visits in study 1; and the average of week 48, 52, and 56 visits in 
study 2), measured by the ETDRS Letter Score. 
Recommendation: Vabysmo® to non-preferred. 
Vijoice® (alpelisib); PDL category- PROS Agents 
Alpelisib, the active ingredient of Vijoice®, is a kinase inhibitor. It is an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3-
kinase (PI3K) with inhibitory activity predominantly against PI3Kα. Gain-of-function mutations in the gene 
encoding the catalytic α-subunit of PI3K (PIK3CA) lead to activation of PI3Kα and Akt-signaling, cellular 
transformation, and the generation of tumors in in vitro and in vivo models. It is indicated for the treatment 
of adult and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with severe manifestations of PIK3CA-Related 
Overgrowth Spectrum (PROS) who require systemic therapy. It is indication is approved under accelerated 
approval based on response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be 
contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). The efficacy of 
Vijoice® was assessed in EPIK-P1, a single-arm clinical study that included patients who were treated as part 
of an expanded access program for compassionate use which enrolled patients across 7 sites in 5 countries 
(France, Spain, US, Ireland, and Australia). The major efficacy outcome, the proportion of patients with 
radiological response at week 24, was 27%. It is recommended that Vijoice® should be non-preferred in order 
to confirm the appropriate diagnosis and clinical parameters for use. 
Recommendation: Vijoice® to non-preferred. 
Clinical Criteria: 
• 
PA required to confirm FDA approved indication. 
Xipere® (triamcinolone acetonide injection, suspension); PDL category- OP- Anti-inflammatory/Steroids 
Op. 
Triamcinolone acetonide, the active ingredient of Xipere®, is a synthetic glucocorticoid (glucocorticoids 
are often referred to as corticosteroids) with immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory activity. The 
primary mechanism of action is as a corticosteroid hormone receptor agonist. It is indicated for the 
treatment of macular edema associated with uveitis. The safety and efficacy of Xipere® were assessed in 
a 6-month, randomized, multicenter double-masked, sham-controlled study that included patients with 
macula edema associated with anterior-, intermediate-, posterior-, or pan-uveitis. Patients were treated 
at baseline and week 12. Results suggested that significantly more in the Xipere® group achieved the 
primary outcome as compared with the control. 
--- Page 12 ---
12 
Recommendation: Xipere® to non-preferred. 
Zimhi® (naloxone HCl injection); PDL category- Narcotic- Antagonists 
Naloxone, the active ingredient of Zimhi®, is an opioid antagonist that antagonizes opioid effects by 
competing for the same receptor sites. Naloxone reverses the effects of opioids, including respiratory 
depression, sedation, and hypotension. Also, it can reverse the psychotomimetic and dysphoric effects of 
agonist-antagonists such as pentazocine. It is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the emergency 
treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, as manifested by respiratory and/or CNS depression. 
Zimhi® is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be 
present. It is not a substitute for emergency medical care. There are no clinical trials in the Zimhi® 
prescribing information. Zimhi® was approved through the 505(b)(2) pathway, and this pathway “…may 
rely on the FDA’s finding that a previously approved drug is safe and effective or on published literature 
to support the safety and/or effectiveness of the proposed product…”.2 Per an FDA bulletin, the 
“…manufacturer submitted a 505(b)(2) application that relied, in part, on the FDAs finding of safety and 
effectiveness for naloxone hydrochloride (Narcan® injection) to support approval.”2 Generic naloxone 
injections are currently available; however, per a small study with healthy adults (N=14), a single 5mg IM 
injection of Zimhi® in a single-dose, prefilled syringe in a delivery device provides significantly higher Cmax 
and AUC as compared to a single IM injection of 2mg naloxone (1mg/1ml). There is no evidence at this 
time to support that Zimhi® is safer or more effective than other currently preferred, more cost-effective 
medications. It is therefore recommended that Zimhi® remain non-preferred and require prior 
authorization and be available to those who are unable to tolerate or who have failed on preferred 
medications. 
Recommendation: Zimhi® to non-preferred. 
Board Decision: The Board unanimously approved the above recommendation. 
FDA SAFETY ALERTS 
None at this time 
Board Decision: No action. 
ADJOURNMENT: 8:30PM 
The next meeting will be held on September 13, 2022 530pm- 8:30pm virtually.